docs/content/preview/yugabyte-cloud/managed-security/managed-authentication.md, before:

---
title: Manage account authentication
headertitle: Manage account authentication
linkTitle: Authentication
description: Use social logins and identity providers to manage authentication.
headcontent: Use social logins and identity providers to manage authentication
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-cloud:
    identifier: managed-authentication
    parent: managed-security
    weight: 300
type: docs
rightNav:
  hideH4: true
---

In addition to email-based accounts, you can use social logins or federated authentication via an external identity provider (IdP) to provide access to your YugabyteDB Managed account.

The **Authentication** tab displays options for configuring social logins and federated authentication.

![Authentication page](/images/yb-cloud/managed-authentication.png)

## Social logins

The available social logins include Google, GitHub, and LinkedIn. All three are enabled by default.

To manage the social logins available to your account users, do the following:

1. Navigate to **Security > Access Control > Authentication** and click **Edit Configuration** to display the **Login Methods** dialog.
1. Enable the social logins you want to use.
1. Click **Save Changes**.

If you revoke a social login that is already in use, users using that social login can either [reset their password](../manage-access/#reset-your-password) to configure email-based login, or sign in using a different social login. The social account must be associated with the same email address.

## Federated authentication

Using federated authentication, you can use an enterprise IdP to manage access to your YugabyteDB Managed account.

Note that after federated authentication is enabled, only Admin users can sign in using email-based login.

Currently, YugabyteDB Managed supports Microsoft Entra ID, PingOne, and Okta enterprise IdPs, exclusively using the OIDC (OpenID Connect) protocol.

### Prerequisites

Before configuring federated authentication, be sure to allow pop-up requests from your IdP. While configuring federated authentication, the provider needs to confirm your identity in a new window.

### Set up federated authentication

Before enabling federated authentication in YugabyteDB Managed, you must configure your IdP and obtain the necessary credentials.

{{< tabpane text=true >}}

  {{% tab header="Microsoft Entra" lang="entra" %}}

**Register an application with Microsoft identity platform**

To use Entra for your IdP, you need to register an application with Microsoft Entra so the Microsoft identity platform can provide authentication and authorization services for your application. Configure the application as follows:

- Provide a name for the application.
- Set the sign-in audience for the application to **Accounts in any organizational directory** (Multitenant).

    ![Azure account types](/images/yb-cloud/managed-authentication-azure-account-types.png)

- Set the Redirect URI platform to Web, and the URI to `https://yugabyte-cloud.okta.com/oauth2/v1/authorize/callback`.

Use your own Entra account to test the connection. For more information, refer to [Register an application with the Microsoft identity platform](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/quickstart-register-app) in the Microsoft documentation.

In addition, to configure Entra federated authentication in YugabyteDB Managed, you need the following:

- Client ID of the application you registered.
- Client secret of the application.

Refer to [Create a new client secret](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/howto-create-service-principal-portal#option-3-create-a-new-client-secret) in the Microsoft documentation.

**Configure**

To configure federated authentication in YugabyteDB Managed, do the following:

1. Navigate to **Security > Access Control > Authentication** and click **Enable Federated Authentication** to display the **Enable Federated Authentication** dialog.
1. Choose the Microsoft Entra ID identity provider.
1. Enter your Entra application client ID and secret.
1. Click **Enable**.

You are redirected to sign in to your IdP to test the connection. Once test connection is successful, federated authentication is enabled.

  {{% /tab %}}

  {{% tab header="PingOne" lang="ping" %}}

**Create an application in PingOne**

To use PingOne for your IdP, do the following:

1. Sign in to your PingIdentity account and create an application.

    - Under **Applications**, add a new application.
    - Enter a name for the application.
    - Under **Application Type**, select **OIDC Web App**.
    - Click **Save**.

1. Select the application you created and, on the **Configuration** tab, click **Edit** and set the following options:

    - **Response Type** - select **Code**.
    - **Grant Type** - select **Authorization Code**.
    - **Redirect URIs** - enter `https://yugabyte-cloud.okta.com/oauth2/v1/authorize/callback`.
    - **Token Endpoint Authentication Method** - select **Client Secret Post**.
    - **Initiate Login URI** - enter `https://cloud.yugabyte.com/login`.

    Click **Save** when you are done.

1. On the **Resources** tab, edit the **ALLOWED SCOPES**, select the **openid**, **email**, and **profile** scopes, and click **Save** when you are done.

1. Configure **Policies** and **Attribute Mappings** as required.

1. On the **Access** tab, click **Edit**, select the user groups you want to access YugabyteDB Managed, and click **Save** when you are done.

1. Enable the application by turning on the slider control at the top of the page.

To configure PingOne federated authentication in YugabyteDB Managed, you need the following application properties:

- Client ID and secret of the application you created. These are provided on the **Overview** and **Configuration** tabs.
- Authorization URL for your application. This is displayed on the **Configuration** tab under **URLs**.

For more information, refer to the [PingOne for Enterprise](https://docs.pingidentity.com/r/en-us/pingoneforenterprise/p14e_landing) documentation.

**Configure**

To configure federated authentication in YugabyteDB Managed, do the following:

1. Navigate to **Security > Access Control > Authentication** and click **Enable Federated Authentication** to display the **Enable Federated Authentication** dialog.
1. Choose PingOne identity provider.
1. Enter the client ID and secret of the PingOne application you created.
1. Enter the Authorization URL for your application.
1. Click **Enable**.

You are redirected to sign in to your IdP to test the connection. After the test connection is successful, federated authentication is enabled.

  {{% /tab %}}

  {{% tab header="Okta" lang="okta" %}}

**Create an application in Okta**

To use Okta for your IdP, do the following:

1. Sign in to your Okta account and create an app integration.

    - In the Admin Console, go to **Applications > Applications**, and click **Create App Integration**.
    - Set **Sign-in method** to **OIDC**, and **Application type** to **Web Application**, then click **Next**.

    This displays the **New Web App Integration** window.

1. Set the web app integration settings as follows.

    - Enter a name for the app integration.
    - Set **Grant type** to **Authorization Code** (the default).
    - For the **Sign-in redirect URIs**, enter `https://yugabyte-cloud.okta.com/oauth2/v1/authorize/callback` as redirect URI.
    - Delete any **Sign-out redirect URIs** entries, if present.
    - Under **Assignments**, select **Limit access to selected groups** and enter the names of the [user groups](https://help.okta.com/asa/en-us/content/topics/adv_server_access/docs/setup/groups.htm) you want to access YugabyteDB Managed.
    - Click **Save**.

Your application is added to the **Applications** page.

To configure Okta federated authentication in YugabyteDB Managed, you need the following application properties:

- Client ID and secret of the application you created. These are provided on the **General** tab.
- Your Okta domain. Click your account name in the top right corner of the Okta Admin Console; the domain is displayed under your account name.

For more information, refer to [App integrations](https://help.okta.com/oie/en-us/content/topics/apps/apps_apps.htm) in the Okta Identity Engine documentation.

**Configure**

To configure federated authentication in YugabyteDB Managed, do the following:

1. Navigate to **Security > Access Control > Authentication**, and click **Enable Federated Authentication** to display the **Enable Federated Authentication** dialog.
1. Choose Okta identity provider.
1. Enter the client ID and secret of the Okta application you created.
1. Enter the Okta domain for your application.
1. Click **Enable**.

You are redirected to sign in to your IdP to test the connection. After the test connection is successful, federated authentication is enabled.

  {{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabpane >}}

## Learn more

- [Enhanced Identity Security with Okta and PingOne Single Sign-On Integrations](https://www.yugabyte.com/blog/single-sign-on-okta-pingone/)

Commit message:

[doc][ybm] Changes for pricing plans #20900 (#22588)
* Changes for pricing plans

* costing page update for new pricing

* misc edits

* edits

* edit

* review comment

* review comment

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Aishwarya Chakravarthy  <achakravarthy@yugabyte.com>

* review comments

* Managed -> Aeon (cloud directories only)

* menus and shortcodes

* Stable: Managed -> Aeon

* v2.20: Managed -> Aeon

* fix typo

* Misc acronym fixes

* v2.18: Managed -> Aeon

* preview: Managed -> Aeon

* typos

* fix deep links

* purge stale links to corp site

* screenshot and billing edits

* review comments

---------

Co-authored-by: Aishwarya Chakravarthy <achakravarthy@yugabyte.com>

docs/content/preview/yugabyte-cloud/managed-security/managed-authentication.md, after:

---
title: Manage account authentication
headertitle: Manage account authentication
linkTitle: Authentication
description: Use social logins and identity providers to manage authentication.
headcontent: Use social logins and identity providers to manage authentication
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-cloud:
    identifier: managed-authentication
    parent: managed-security
    weight: 300
type: docs
rightNav:
  hideH4: true
---

In addition to email-based accounts, you can use social logins or federated authentication via an external identity provider (IdP) to provide access to your YugabyteDB Aeon account.

The **Authentication** tab displays options for configuring social logins and federated authentication.

![Authentication page](/images/yb-cloud/managed-authentication.png)

## Social logins

The available social logins include Google, GitHub, and LinkedIn. All three are enabled by default.

To manage the social logins available to your account users, do the following:

1. Navigate to **Security > Access Control > Authentication** and click **Edit Configuration** to display the **Login Methods** dialog.
1. Enable the social logins you want to use.
1. Click **Save Changes**.

If you revoke a social login that is already in use, users using that social login can either [reset their password](../manage-access/#reset-your-password) to configure email-based login, or sign in using a different social login. The social account must be associated with the same email address.

## Federated authentication

Using federated authentication, you can use an enterprise IdP to manage access to your YugabyteDB Aeon account.

Note that after federated authentication is enabled, only Admin users can sign in using email-based login.

Currently, YugabyteDB Aeon supports Microsoft Entra ID, PingOne, and Okta enterprise IdPs, exclusively using the OIDC (OpenID Connect) protocol.

### Prerequisites

Before configuring federated authentication, be sure to allow pop-up requests from your IdP. While configuring federated authentication, the provider needs to confirm your identity in a new window.

### Set up federated authentication

Before enabling federated authentication in YugabyteDB Aeon, you must configure your IdP and obtain the necessary credentials.

{{< tabpane text=true >}}

  {{% tab header="Microsoft Entra" lang="entra" %}}

**Register an application with Microsoft identity platform**

To use Entra for your IdP, you need to register an application with Microsoft Entra so the Microsoft identity platform can provide authentication and authorization services for your application. Configure the application as follows:

- Provide a name for the application.
- Set the sign-in audience for the application to **Accounts in any organizational directory** (Multitenant).

    ![Azure account types](/images/yb-cloud/managed-authentication-azure-account-types.png)

- Set the Redirect URI platform to Web, and the URI to `https://yugabyte-cloud.okta.com/oauth2/v1/authorize/callback`.

Use your own Entra account to test the connection. For more information, refer to [Register an application with the Microsoft identity platform](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/quickstart-register-app) in the Microsoft documentation.

In addition, to configure Entra federated authentication in YugabyteDB Aeon, you need the following:

- Client ID of the application you registered.
- Client secret of the application.

Refer to [Create a new client secret](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/howto-create-service-principal-portal#option-3-create-a-new-client-secret) in the Microsoft documentation.

**Configure**

To configure federated authentication in YugabyteDB Aeon, do the following:

1. Navigate to **Security > Access Control > Authentication** and click **Enable Federated Authentication** to display the **Enable Federated Authentication** dialog.
1. Choose the Microsoft Entra ID identity provider.
1. Enter your Entra application client ID and secret.
1. Click **Enable**.

You are redirected to sign in to your IdP to test the connection. Once test connection is successful, federated authentication is enabled.

  {{% /tab %}}

  {{% tab header="PingOne" lang="ping" %}}

**Create an application in PingOne**

To use PingOne for your IdP, do the following:

1. Sign in to your PingIdentity account and create an application.

    - Under **Applications**, add a new application.
    - Enter a name for the application.
    - Under **Application Type**, select **OIDC Web App**.
    - Click **Save**.

1. Select the application you created and, on the **Configuration** tab, click **Edit** and set the following options:

    - **Response Type** - select **Code**.
    - **Grant Type** - select **Authorization Code**.
    - **Redirect URIs** - enter `https://yugabyte-cloud.okta.com/oauth2/v1/authorize/callback`.
    - **Token Endpoint Authentication Method** - select **Client Secret Post**.
    - **Initiate Login URI** - enter `https://cloud.yugabyte.com/login`.

    Click **Save** when you are done.

1. On the **Resources** tab, edit the **ALLOWED SCOPES**, select the **openid**, **email**, and **profile** scopes, and click **Save** when you are done.

1. Configure **Policies** and **Attribute Mappings** as required.

1. On the **Access** tab, click **Edit**, select the user groups you want to access YugabyteDB Aeon, and click **Save** when you are done.

1. Enable the application by turning on the slider control at the top of the page.

To configure PingOne federated authentication in YugabyteDB Aeon, you need the following application properties:

- Client ID and secret of the application you created. These are provided on the **Overview** and **Configuration** tabs.
- Authorization URL for your application. This is displayed on the **Configuration** tab under **URLs**.

For more information, refer to the [PingOne for Enterprise](https://docs.pingidentity.com/r/en-us/pingoneforenterprise/p14e_landing) documentation.

**Configure**

To configure federated authentication in YugabyteDB Aeon, do the following:

1. Navigate to **Security > Access Control > Authentication** and click **Enable Federated Authentication** to display the **Enable Federated Authentication** dialog.
1. Choose PingOne identity provider.
1. Enter the client ID and secret of the PingOne application you created.
1. Enter the Authorization URL for your application.
1. Click **Enable**.

You are redirected to sign in to your IdP to test the connection. After the test connection is successful, federated authentication is enabled.

  {{% /tab %}}

  {{% tab header="Okta" lang="okta" %}}

**Create an application in Okta**

To use Okta for your IdP, do the following:

1. Sign in to your Okta account and create an app integration.

    - In the Admin Console, go to **Applications > Applications**, and click **Create App Integration**.
    - Set **Sign-in method** to **OIDC**, and **Application type** to **Web Application**, then click **Next**.

    This displays the **New Web App Integration** window.

1. Set the web app integration settings as follows.

    - Enter a name for the app integration.
    - Set **Grant type** to **Authorization Code** (the default).
    - For the **Sign-in redirect URIs**, enter `https://yugabyte-cloud.okta.com/oauth2/v1/authorize/callback` as redirect URI.
    - Delete any **Sign-out redirect URIs** entries, if present.
    - Under **Assignments**, select **Limit access to selected groups** and enter the names of the [user groups](https://help.okta.com/asa/en-us/content/topics/adv_server_access/docs/setup/groups.htm) you want to access YugabyteDB Aeon.
    - Click **Save**.

Your application is added to the **Applications** page.

To configure Okta federated authentication in YugabyteDB Aeon, you need the following application properties:

- Client ID and secret of the application you created. These are provided on the **General** tab.
- Your Okta domain. Click your account name in the top right corner of the Okta Admin Console; the domain is displayed under your account name.

For more information, refer to [App integrations](https://help.okta.com/oie/en-us/content/topics/apps/apps_apps.htm) in the Okta Identity Engine documentation.

**Configure**

To configure federated authentication in YugabyteDB Aeon, do the following:

1. Navigate to **Security > Access Control > Authentication**, and click **Enable Federated Authentication** to display the **Enable Federated Authentication** dialog.
1. Choose Okta identity provider.
1. Enter the client ID and secret of the Okta application you created.
1. Enter the Okta domain for your application.
1. Click **Enable**.

You are redirected to sign in to your IdP to test the connection. After the test connection is successful, federated authentication is enabled.

  {{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabpane >}}

## Learn more

- [Enhanced Identity Security with Okta and PingOne Single Sign-On Integrations](https://www.yugabyte.com/blog/single-sign-on-okta-pingone/)
