docs/content/preview/yugabyte-platform/security/authentication/_index.md, before:

---
title: Configure database authentication in YugabyteDB Anywhere
headerTitle: Database authentication
linkTitle: Database authentication
headcontent: Secure your YugabyteDB universes
description: Database authentication in YugabyteDB Anywhere.
image: /images/section_icons/index/secure.png
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-platform:
    parent: security
    identifier: authentication
weight: 25
type: indexpage
---

YugabyteDB supports LDAP and OIDC for database authentication.

| Protocol | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| LDAP | LDAP authentication is similar to password authentication, except that it uses the LDAP protocol to verify the database user's password. Before LDAP can be used for database authentication, users must already exist in the database and have appropriate permissions. |
| OIDC | OpenID Connect (OIDC) is an authentication protocol that allows client applications to confirm the user's identity via authentication by an authorization server. YugabyteDB supports authentication based on the OIDC protocol for access to YugabyteDB databases. This includes support for fine-grained access control using OIDC token claims and improved isolation with tenant-specific token signing keys. |

(For information on configuring user authentication for your YugabyteDB Anywhere instance, refer to [Configure authentication for YugabyteDB Anywhere](../../administer-yugabyte-platform/ldap-authentication/).)

{{<index/block>}}

  {{<index/item
    title="LDAP authentication"
    body="Use an external LDAP service to perform database client authentication."
    href="ldap-authentication-platform/"
    icon="/images/section_icons/secure/authentication.png">}}

  {{<index/item
    title="OIDC with Azure AD"
    body="Authenticate database users using SSO via Azure AD."
    href="oidc-authentication-aad/"
    icon="/images/section_icons/secure/authorization.png">}}

{{</index/block>}}

Commit message:

[BACKPORT pg15-cherrypicks] all: Bulk port from master - 78
Summary:
 e86c2c0155 [PLAT-14938][Platform][UI]Task Details UI - use Audit log API
 3f4459d848 [PLAT-14418][Platform] Save before/after task params when Universe Edit, Gflags update, Software upgrade is done
 3aa7cbe580 [PLAT-14784]: Avoid resetting storage type when instance type is changed in EDIT mode
 ebb3f14ddb [PLAT-14871]: Do not disable "Assign Public IP" in Azure, instead uncheck by default
 e649707fc2 [PLAT-12934]: Ability to roll N nodes at a time during upgrades for multi-AZ(region) universes
 e7664f999f lead links in migrate (#23494)
 3d5aa82e7e [DOC-295] [DOC-432]JumpCloud IdP for YBA (#23214)
 fa870e20b5 configure flag (#23507)
 0dd7ac289e [#23462] YSQL: Fix DCHECK on rolling upgrade to perdb catalog version
 df00b5c564 [PLAT-14948] K8s Operator, Release Reconciler has a regression since we switched to new releases workflow
 e91dfcabd1 [#18407] DocDB: Cleanup commented code
 8bed812901 [#23502] YSQL: Simplify interaction of sys table prefetcher and catalog read time

Test Plan: Jenkins: rebase: pg15-cherrypicks

Reviewers: jason, tfoucher

Tags: #jenkins-ready

Differential Revision: https://phorge.dev.yugabyte.com/D37342

docs/content/preview/yugabyte-platform/security/authentication/_index.md, after:

---
title: Configure database authentication in YugabyteDB Anywhere
headerTitle: Database authentication
linkTitle: Database authentication
headcontent: Secure your YugabyteDB universes
description: Database authentication in YugabyteDB Anywhere.
image: /images/section_icons/index/secure.png
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-platform:
    parent: security
    identifier: authentication
weight: 25
type: indexpage
---

YugabyteDB supports LDAP and OIDC for database authentication.

| Protocol | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| LDAP | LDAP authentication is similar to password authentication, except that it uses the LDAP protocol to verify the database user's password. Before LDAP can be used for database authentication, users must already exist in the database and have appropriate permissions. |
| OIDC | OpenID Connect (OIDC) is an authentication protocol that allows client applications to confirm the user's identity via authentication by an authorization server. YugabyteDB supports authentication based on the OIDC protocol for access to YugabyteDB databases. This includes support for fine-grained access control using OIDC token claims and improved isolation with tenant-specific token signing keys. |

(For information on configuring user authentication for your YugabyteDB Anywhere instance, refer to [Configure authentication for YugabyteDB Anywhere](../../administer-yugabyte-platform/ldap-authentication/).)

{{<index/block>}}

  {{<index/item
    title="LDAP authentication"
    body="Use an external LDAP service to perform database client authentication."
    href="ldap-authentication-platform/"
    icon="/images/section_icons/secure/authentication.png">}}

  {{<index/item
    title="OIDC authentication"
    body="Use an identity provider to authenticate database users."
    href="oidc-authentication-aad/"
    icon="/images/section_icons/secure/authorization.png">}}

{{</index/block>}}
