---
title: What's new in the YugabyteDB Anywhere v2025.1 STS release series
headerTitle: What's new in the YugabyteDB Anywhere v2025.1 STS release series
linkTitle: v2025.1 series (STS)
description: Enhancements, changes, and resolved issues in the YugaybteDB Anywhere v2025.1 STS release series.
menu:
  stable_releases:
    identifier: yba-v2025.1
    parent: yba-releases
    weight: 1000
type: docs
---

What follows are the release notes for all releases in the **YugabyteDB Anywhere** (YBA) v2025.1 series. Content will be added as new notable features and changes are available in the patch releases of the YBA v2025.1 series.

For an RSS feed of all release series, point your feed reader to the [RSS feed for releases](../index.xml).

## Before you upgrade

{{< warning title="On-premises legacy provisioning no longer available in v2025.2" >}}

YugabyteDB Anywhere v2025.2 (available late 2025) will not support legacy node provisioning for on-premises universe nodes.

To prepare for v2025.2, update your node provisioning automation and workflows to support the [node agent script](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/prepare/server-nodes-software/software-on-prem/). To migrate universe nodes to the new automated provisioning, you can follow the [node patching procedure](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/manage-deployments/upgrade-nodes/).

{{< /warning >}}

Before upgrading, review the information in [Prepare to upgrade YugabyteDB Anywhere](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/upgrade/prepare-to-upgrade/).

## v2025.1.3.1 - February 4, 2026 {#v2025.1.3.1}

**Build:** `2025.1.3.1-b2`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.3.1/yugabytedb-2025.1.3.1-b2-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.3.1/yugabytedb-anywhere-2025.1.3.1-b2-third-party-licenses.html)

### Download

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.3.1/yba_installer_full-2025.1.3.1-b2-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

## v2025.1.3.0 - January 16, 2026 {#v2025.1.3.0}

**Build:** `2025.1.3.0-b75`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.3.0/yugabytedb-2025.1.3.0-b75-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.3.0/yugabytedb-anywhere-2025.1.3.0-b75-third-party-licenses.html)

### Download

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.3.0/yba_installer_full-2025.1.3.0-b75-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

### Improvements

* Adds Azure provider validation support for Gallery Image ID format. PLAT-15964
* Upgraded Prometheus client library to eliminate warnings caused by duplicate JVM metrics. PLAT-17918
* Simplified systemd handling by removing sudo check and installing service during node-agent installation. PLAT-18881
* Introduces a runtime configuration to allow local user login even when Single Sign-On (SSO) is enabled on YugabyteDB Admin (YBA). This feature is enabled by default, but users have the option to disable it. PLAT-19204

### Bug fixes

* Improved accuracy in Python version change detection and automatic pex environment rebuilding. PLAT-17781
* Resolved installation script permission errors occurring when run via `su` by improving user detection logic. PLAT-18500
* Refined default SSH user selection logic in provider creation page. PLAT-18666
* Allows non-root users to correctly run `yba-ctl status` for global systemd, based on the installation method. PLAT-18733
* Fixed an issue causing Java trust store to break after upgrading YBA from 2.20 to 2025.1 due to differences in keystore formats. PLAT-18815
* Custom proxy selector of YBA now supports subdomain and CIDR for no_proxy. PLAT-18925
* Resolves issue causing universe upgrade failure due to deprecated SYSTEMD_SUDOER_ENTRY in NodeInstance metadata. PLAT-19146
* Updated health check to validate runtime certificates for both tserver and master processes. PLAT-18414,PLAT-19231
* Fixed issue where passing `encryption-at-rest-kms-config` does not enable encryption at rest in CLI. Now requires `ENABLE` opType for new EAR workflow. PLAT-18950
* Upgraded Jinja2 version to 3.1.6, enhancing security and compatibility. PLAT-18964
* Fixes metric export issue when metric name contains `_total` suffix, ensuring proper handling for custom node metrics in K8S universes. PLAT-19056
* Resolved issue with PlatformInstanceClient not sending cluster header in HA API calls, restoring HA setup functionality. PLAT-19114
* Introduces a precheck to ensure the Yugabyte home directory in the on-premises provider matches the DB node. PLAT-18366
* Adds precheck for matching Yugabyte home directories in on-prem provider and DB node. PLAT-18366
* Fixed SSH access issue for Yugabyte user in onprem auto provisioning for RHEL 9. PLAT-18631
* Fixed an issue where certain `ybp_health_check_tserver` metrics were missing for RF1 clusters. PLAT-18636
* Updated `-netty-shaded` to version >=1.75.0 to fix {{<cve "CVE-2025-55163">}}. Upgraded `-security-crypto` from version `5.8.16` to `5.8.18` or higher. Migrated spring libraries to 6.x including a javax to jakarta namespace migration. PLAT-18658
* Resolve issue with node exporter installation for non-login users. PLAT-18681,PLAT-18639
* Adds regex to match and display volume stats metrics in OpenShift Container Platform (OCP). PLAT-18763
* Updated PagerDuty alerts to display proper severity levels by renaming `severity` field in `custom_details` to `yba_severity`. PLAT-19084
* Fixed issue with invalid YAML output due to newline removal in $appLabelArgs assignment in templates. PLAT-19169
* Resolved chart rendering issues by correcting remaining instances of erroneous pattern in the template. PLAT-19169
* Corrected function scope in Helm templates to resolve errors when `createServicePerPod` is enabled. PLAT-19206
* Fixes issue where nodes display as unreachable if universe is created with overridden ports. PLAT-19260,PLAT-19287
* Adds support for creating and using custom regions in Kubernetes. PLAT-18243
* Added common labels to Yugaware and Yugabyte Helm charts for Kubernetes resources. PLAT-18353
* Adds common labels to YBA-generated objects in Kubernetes, including PDB, OTEL, and K8s. PLAT-18355
* Allows deployment of Kubernetes operator without requiring cluster-wide permissions. PLAT-18415
* Refines common label escape hatch to prevent modification of default labels, thereby enhancing stability during universe creation. PLAT-19099
* Fixes node agent installation failure for CSPs on Ubuntu. PLAT-19023
* Fixed Helm formatting issue that occurred when using AWS/GCP exporter in otel-template. PLAT-19169


## v2025.1.2.2 - December 17, 2025 {#v2025.1.2.2}

**Build:** `2025.1.2.2-b5`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.2.2/yugabytedb-2025.1.2.2-b5-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.2.2/yugabytedb-anywhere-2025.1.2.2-b5-third-party-licenses.html)

### Download

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.2.2/yba_installer_full-2025.1.2.2-b5-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

### Bug fixes

* Corrects template assignment in templates, clears up remaining issues to enhance chart rendering and ensure valid YAML rendering by preserving line breaks. PLAT-19169
* Adds common labels to YBA generated objects in Kubernetes, including PDB, OTEL, K8s, and Yugaware charts. PLAT-18353, PLAT-18355
* Allows deploying the k8s operator with namespace-scoped permissions instead of cluster-wide permissions. PLAT-18415

## v2025.1.2.1 - December 2, 2025 {#v2025.1.2.1}

**Build:** `2025.1.2.1-b4`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.2.1/yugabytedb-2025.1.2.1-b4-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.2.1/yugabytedb-anywhere-2025.1.2.1-b4-third-party-licenses.html)

### Download

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.2.1/yba_installer_full-2025.1.2.1-b4-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

### Bug fix

* Enables a pre-check to ensure the Yugabyte home directory in the on-prem provider matches that on the DB node. PLAT-18366

## v2025.1.2.0 - November 20, 2025 {#v2025.1.2.0}

**Build:** `2025.1.2.0-b110`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.2.0/yugabytedb-2025.1.2.0-b110-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.2.0/yugabytedb-anywhere-2025.1.2.0-b110-third-party-licenses.html)

### Download

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.2.0/yba_installer_full-2025.1.2.0-b110-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

### New feature

* [Improved OIDC-based Identity Provider authentication](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/security/authentication/oidc-authentication-aad/). When using an OIDC-based IdP to authenticate database access, changes by the IdP to the JWK (the key used to encrypt Java Web Tokens) are now automatically detected and handled properly. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1658">}}

### Improvements

* Adds option to disable table-level metrics collection in YugabyteDB. PLAT-18210
* Displays WAL status in CDC metrics for clearer stream expiry info. PLAT-18496

### Bug fixes

* Enhances method to decide if `use_sudo` is needed for Ansible runbooks based on TServer status. PLAT-17963
* Updates Java dependencies to address multiple CVEs. PLAT-17981
* Upgrades Ansible version to enhance security and prepare for its future removal. PLAT-18009
* Upgrades `braces` to version 3.0.3 to prevent memory exhaustion. PLAT-18011
* Ensures support bundles correctly collect flag overrides in Kubernetes environments. PLAT-18255
* Prevents errors by checking PITR configuration existence before deletion. PLAT-18401
* Allows users to configure cloud volume encryption at runtime. PLAT-18432
* Adds UI option for S3 "SIGNING_REGION" configuration behind a runtime flag. PLAT-18451
* Allows deletion and recreation of PITR schedule during all upgrades, limiting xCluster DR operations during upgrade process. PLAT-18466
* Corrects DR configuration issue for proper snapshot and retention settings. PLAT-18473
* Reduces logical replication lag reporting issues by using `cdcsdk_flush_lag` metric. PLAT-18479
* Ensures YBA HA GET APIs authenticate users without enforcing authorization checks. PLAT-18503
* Disables misleading systemd precheck alerts for cron-based universes. PLAT-18515
* Upgrades PostgreSQL to 14.19+ in YB-A to address critical CVEs. PLAT-18517
* Upgrades Postgres image in charts to address new customer-reported CVEs. PLAT-18517
* Corrects text and suggestions for the xCluster command in the CLI. PLAT-18535
* Fixes the issue of excess masters by updating preflight checks and improving health monitoring. PLAT-18573
* Enables validation of NFS return codes in YBC for better error handling. PLAT-18671
* Allows `yb-server-ctl` script to run successfully with system level systemd universes. PLAT-18804
* Enables stable YBC branch for generating compatible builds, resolving incompatibility issues. PLAT-18803
* Upgrades YBA Prometheus to 3.5.0, addressing over 10 vulnerabilities. PLAT-18201
* Upgrades Prometheus in Helm charts to v3.5.0, addressing over 10 vulnerabilities. PLAT-18201
* Upgrades node_exporter to version 1.9.1, enhancing security. PLAT-18315
* Upgrades Protobuf to address {{<cve "CVE-2025-4565">}}. PLAT-18428
* Corrects the earlyoom installation issue in on-premises environments. PLAT-18441,PLAT-18412
* Upgrades Go version to 1.24.6 and updates dependencies to enhance security. PLAT-18446,PLAT-18447
* Addresses {{<cve "CVE-2025-58367">}} with a Deep Diff update. PLAT-18557
* Corrects the handling of system settings to avoid incorrect values after reboot. PLAT-18628,PLAT-18584
* Fixes rollback upgrade failure on OpenShift clusters by using pod config for cleanup. PLAT-18664
* Enables Azure backups to operate correctly with subdirectory specifications. PLAT-18207
* Fixes version check for `dump_role_check` in backups to apply flags correctly. PLAT-18533
* Blocks database restore during the monitoring phase for all upgrades. PLAT-18555
* Ensures Prometheus correctly uses self-signed certificates in HTTPS mode. PLAT-18561
* Allows picking any live TServer when the Master leader node is unavailable during a PG-Upgrade check. PLAT-18618
* Allows PITR configs to stay enabled during upgrades without necessary finalization. PLAT-18619
* Fixes an error in CLI describe output when accessing latest flags without setting the environment variable. PLAT-18672
* Fixes issue where creating a universe with EBS encryption led to incorrect cmk id on volumes. PLAT-18718
* Now includes pg_upgrade_dump*.log and init db logs in the support bundle for easier PG11 to PG15 upgrade troubleshooting. PLAT-17855
* Upgrades java dependencies to fix multiple vulnerabilities, including a Denial of Service issue and Netty's MadeYouReset HTTP/2 DDoS vulnerability. PLAT-18737,PLAT-18659
* Enables `ON_ERROR_STOP` by default during restores on master. PLAT-18264
* Adds API to set zone priorities in database placement info. PLAT-18158,PLAT-18411
* Prevents YBA backups from overwriting each other using timestamped temp directories. PLAT-18514
* Allows `on_error_stop` to function correctly without needing `revert_to_pre_roles_behaviour` to be false. PLAT-18594, PLAT-15893
* Eliminates duplicate "SSH Private Key Content" label from the GCP provider creation form. PLAT-18602
* Allows controlled server upgrades within availability zones with user-defined sleep time and enhanced logging for visibility. PLAT-18667,PLAT-18669
* Prevents cleaning up the PG logs directory during rollback to retain initial logs after a software upgrade failure. PLAT-18752
* Fixes SSH access issues for yugabyte user on RHEL 9 during on-prem auto provisioning. PLAT-18631
* Solves universe creation failure in `testonpremuniverse-onprem-custom-sudo-tls-custom-os-rhel_9` by adjusting owner. PLAT-18940
* Pass "ENABLE" opType to activate encryption at rest in new EAR workflow through the CLI. PLAT-18950

## v2025.1.1.2 - October 20, 2025 {#v2025.1.1.2}

**Build:** `2025.1.1.2-b3`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.1.2/yugabytedb-2025.1.1.2-b3-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.1.2/yugabytedb-anywhere-2025.1.1.2-b3-third-party-licenses.html)

### Download

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.1.2/yba_installer_full-2025.1.1.2-b3-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

This is a YugabyteDB-only release, with no changes to YugabyteDB Anywhere.

## v2025.1.1.1 - October 3, 2025 {#v2025.1.1.1}

**Build:** `2025.1.1.1-b1`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.1.1/yugabytedb-2025.1.1.1-b1-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.1.1/yugabytedb-anywhere-2025.1.1.1-b1-third-party-licenses.html)

### Download

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.1.1/yba_installer_full-2025.1.1.1-b1-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

### Highlights

We're excited to announce the key features and enhancements in the 2025.1.1.1 release, designed to improve performance, usability, and management of your database environments.

**xCluster Disaster Recovery (DR) – Control-plane support for DDL replication** {{<tags/feature/ea idea="2089">}}

Adds YugabyteDB Anywhere support for [Automatic transactional xCluster replication](/v2025.1/deploy/multi-dc/async-replication/async-transactional-setup-automatic/) enabling seamless replication of schema changes across clusters in a DR setup.
For more information, refer to [xCluster Disaster Recovery](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/back-up-restore-universes/disaster-recovery/).

**UI updates to automatically provision on-premises nodes** {{<tags/feature/ga idea="2081">}}.

To improve the out-of-box experience, the UI for creating on-premises providers has been modified to direct users to automatic provisioning. For more information, refer to [Automatically provision on-premises nodes](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/prepare/server-nodes-software/software-on-prem/).

Note: Support for [legacy node provisioning](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/prepare/server-nodes-software/software-on-prem-legacy/) will be dropped in v2025.2 (available late 2025). Before upgrading to v2025.2, be sure to update your node provisioning workflows to support automatic provisioning.

### New features

* [Backups with DDL](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/back-up-restore-universes/). Backups succeed even when DDL changes are occurring during the backup process. {{<tags/feature/tp idea="1484">}}

* [Filter personally identifiable information (PII) in support bundles](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/troubleshoot/universe-issues/#use-support-bundles). When creating support bundles, and the option to collect pgAudit logs is selected, sensitive PII data is now masked, reducing risk of data privacy violations and improving data security stance. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="2170">}}

* [Support for AWS's EBS disk encryption](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/create-deployments/create-universe-multi-zone/#additional-aws-fields), complementing (or offering an alternative to) YugabyteDB's encryption-at-rest. {{<tags/feature/ea idea="2329">}}

* [Batching of rolling operations](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/manage-deployments/edit-config-flags/#batched-rolling-restart). During a rolling restart, such as when applying software upgrades and flag changes, YugabyteDB Anywhere can now process multiple YB-TServer nodes in each availability zone simultaneously. This can reduce the time required to perform rolling operations on large clusters by 2x, 3x, or more, depending on the (configurable) batch size. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="444">}}
<!-- {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1710">}} -->

### Known issue

- [YSQL major upgrade](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/manage-deployments/ysql-major-upgrade-yba/) (PostgreSQL 15 upgrade) does not work when PITR is enabled on a universe. You need to disable PITR before the upgrade and re-enable it after finalizing or rolling back the upgrade. See [limitations](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/manage-deployments/ysql-major-upgrade-yba/#limitations).

### Change log

<details>
  <summary>View the detailed changelog</summary>

### Improvements

* Introduces `UNIVERSE.DEBUG` for specific debugging actions, enhancing access control. PLAT-14856
* Enables setting up and maintaining xCluster DDL replication configurations. PLAT-17775,PLAT-17904,PLAT-18078
* Enable volume encryption in YBA APIs and deprecate outdated fields. PLAT-18083
* Enables volume encryption support in the YBA UI and APIs. PLAT-18284
* Streamlines AWS volume encryption with new CLI fields, removing deprecated options. PLAT-18380
* Enables automatic bootstrapping for DR configurations in the UI. PLAT-18384
* Enables scraping of internal otel metrics by YBA-I Prometheus. PLAT-16912
* Allows configuring the catalog upgrade admin ops timeout, now defaulting to 15 minutes. PLAT-17807
* Adds OutlierDB support to metrics view and removes outdated code. PLAT-18272
* Shows a banner for cron-based universes needing an upgrade before v2025.2. PLAT-17422

### Bug fixes

* Secures LDAP passwords in logs by redacting sensitive flags during operations. PLAT-12639
* Enables users to configure Prometheus for remote write and HTTPS via `yba-ctl`. PLAT-17546
* Disables Yugabyte managed image bundles for air-gapped installations, requiring custom images instead. PLAT-17699
* Enables appending a custom suffix to the CN field of certificates created by cert-manager. PLAT-17732
* Adds a check to block non-restart upgrades when universe nodes are in-transit. PLAT-17905
* Enables runtime config by default for rolling nodes in Kubernetes and VMs starting in 2025.1. PLAT-17966
* Enables automatic DDL replication mode in the YBA UI for easier schema changes. PLAT-17969
* Upgrades the Cassandra client library to enhance security. PLAT-18007
* Ensures YSQL migration file consistency during upgrades and backups. PLAT-18057
* Allows use of node hostname on master to fix pg_upgrade and InitDb issues in Kubernetes with encryption enabled. PLAT-18177
* Ensures safer K8s rollbacks by tracking tserver upgrades and flag settings. PLAT-18178
* Ensures reliable catalog rollback only with successful master upgrades during YSQL updates. PLAT-18178
* Removes outdated `Path` sections and updates logging to use journal in systemd files. PLAT-18249
* Adds retries to `systemctl` commands for better stability during service management. PLAT-18321
* Ensures bootstrapping is always indicated as required for automatic DDL replication setups. PLAT-18344
* Enhances switchover reliability by excluding `replicated_ddls` from replication prechecks. PLAT-18346
* Allows specifying a custom YB home directory during on-prem provisioning. PLAT-18347
* Prevents errors by checking PITR configuration existence before deletion. PLAT-18401
* Ensures correct table ID usage in xCluster configurations, enhancing accuracy and consistency. PLAT-18421
* Changes `query_id` to string for compatibility in live queries. PLAT-18481
* Updates xCluster schema change mode config descriptions for clarity. PLAT-18489
* Enhances method to decide if `use_sudo` is needed for Ansible runbooks based on tserver status. PLAT-17963
* Upgrades Ansible version to enhance security and prepare for its future removal. PLAT-18009
* Allows users to configure cloud volume encryption at runtime. PLAT-18432
* Adds UI option for S3 "SIGNING_REGION" configuration behind a runtime flag. PLAT-18451
* Corrects DR config issue for proper snapshot and retention settings. PLAT-18473
* Fixes the issue of excess masters by updating preflight checks and improving health monitoring. PLAT-18573
* Adds a critical alert for invalid THP parameters on nodes. PLAT-17808,PLAT-17170
* Deprecates the "role" field in the Users API response. PLAT-17902
* Locks certifi version to support Python 3.6, preventing AWS create universe failures. PLAT-17917
* Enables manual flow control for Java node agent gRPC streaming to prevent buffer overflow. PLAT-17927
* Upgrades setuptools to 78.1.1 to address high-severity CVEs. PLAT-17982
* Enhances security by updating Go libraries to address multiple CVEs. PLAT-17983
* Allows changing ports in CP even if `pgsql_proxy_bind_address` is set manually. PLAT-18058
* Ensures YBA Installer works on RHEL8/9 by handling native libs correctly. PLAT-18081
* Reduces buffer size to 1MB and switches to heap memory for easier management. PLAT-18164
* Reduces high CPU usage by eliminating infinite loops in YBC upgrades. PLAT-18174
* Removes NGINX from YBA Helm charts in versions 2.14 to 2.20. PLAT-10837
* Adds checkbox to filter PgAudit logs from support bundles to protect sensitive data. PLAT-17371
* Ensures UI updates correctly when preflight checks fail during Linux upgrades. PLAT-17756
* Ensures software upgrades correctly rollback by preserving the initial autoflag version. PLAT-17854
* Enhances backup reliability by preventing hangs during master address resolution failures. PLAT-17886
* Adds OpenShift compatibility to Helm charts via the `ocpCompatibility.enabled` flag. PLAT-17919
* Ensures YBA upgrades from 2.18 to 2025.1 handle migrations correctly on first attempt. PLAT-17940
* Increases PG catalog operations default timeout to 1 hour for all universes. PLAT-17987
* Enables architecture selection during On-Prem Universe deployment. PLAT-18036
* Hides LDAP passwords in the YBA flags configuration UI to enhance security. PLAT-18069
* Ensures appropriate utility versions for ARM architectures during Node Agent setup. PLAT-18093
* Restores from backups now compare against the earliest snapshot time for accuracy. PLAT-18117
* Updates YugabyteDB to version 2.2.0.2-b9, supporting backups during DDL. PLAT-18120
* Uses pod-specific configuration to execute commands, enhancing permission accuracy during upgrades. PLAT-18121
* Ensures correct kubeconfig is used when adding a new AZ in Kubernetes setups. PLAT-18154
* Upgrades OAuth2 in Go services to fix a CVE. PLAT-18193
* Restores old backups correctly without migration errors. PLAT-18235
* Increases YBC client and server version to 2.2.0.2-b12, fixing a race condition and dangling pointer issue. PLAT-18271
* Enables PgAudit log filtering by default in support bundles, with an option to include via UI checkbox. PLAT-18302
* Updates YBC client and server versions to 2.2.0.2-b13 for enhanced stability. PLAT-18340,PLAT-18341
* Enables successful PG-15 upgrades with DB audit logging. PLAT-18358
* Hides LDAP passwords in flags within support bundles. PLAT-18363
* Fixes symlink issues to prevent rolling restart failures in OpenShift. PLAT-18433
* Enables custom NTP server configuration for universes. PLAT-18439,PLAT-17303
* Ensures YNP Onprem provisioning supports custom home directories. PLAT-18445
* Enhances stability by ignoring irrelevant index table IDs in the `list universe tables` API with `xClusterSupportedOnly=True`. PLAT-18485
* Fixes version check for `dump_role_check` in backups to apply flags correctly. PLAT-18533
* Ensures Prometheus correctly uses self-signed certificates in HTTPS mode. PLAT-18561
* Ensures query call counts exceed integer limits by using long data types. PLAT-16470
* Removes "Use SystemD" option from the Create Universe workflow. PLAT-17779
* Enable `yb.skip_version_checks` to bypass software upgrade version checks. PLAT-17780
* Updates YBA dashboards to display new Master RPC metrics. PLAT-17851
* Adds options to set IP preferences and custom arguments in service configurations. PLAT-18045,PLAT-18055,PLAT-18054
* Allows editing PITR retention period directly from the DR config modal in YBA UI. PLAT-15144
* Respects Kubernetes override settings for CPU core calculations. PLAT-17874
* Enables default service account to access opentelemetry-collector. PLAT-17884
* Lists user roles accurately using role binding APIs in CLI descriptions. PLAT-17901
* Enhances clockbound health checks to include systemd status and log analysis. PLAT-17978
* Disallow PITR after PG-15 upgrade rollback or during upgrade finalization. PLAT-17999,PLAT-17998
* Allows creating universe support bundles without compulsory Prometheus queries. PLAT-18000
* Adds a dropdown for automatic or legacy provisioning in the YBA UI when creating on-prem providers. PLAT-18112
* Enables retrieving all user groups from Azure AD by adding pagination support. PLAT-18181
* Adds delete, describe, and list commands for telemetry providers to the CLI. PLAT-18183
* Reduces import snapshot timeout and adds additional RPC error retries. PLAT-18206
* Adds `skipKeyValidateAndUpload` flag for AWS provider setup to bypass SSH key validation. PLAT-18230
* Supports fetching flags checksum using both old and new Helm naming styles. PLAT-18232
* Adds `hybrid_clock_error` metric to YBA for better node health assessment. PLAT-18238
* Ensures target YSQL migration files include all source files in xCluster replication. PLAT-18248
* Automatically includes inherited values in runtime config fetches. PLAT-18267
* Updates YBC client and server version to 2.2.0.2-b14. PLAT-18469
* Fixes PostgreSQL rollback upgrade issues on OpenShift clusters. PLAT-18664

</details>

## v2025.1.0.1 - August 5, 2025 {#v2025.1.0.1}

**Build:** `2025.1.0.1-b3`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.0.1/yugabytedb-2025.1.0.1-b3-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.0.1/yugabytedb-anywhere-2025.1.0.1-b3-third-party-licenses.html)

### Download

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.0.1/yba_installer_full-2025.1.0.1-b3-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

### Bug fixes

* Removes unnecessary x86 dependencies during ARM builds. PLAT-18093
* Allows use of node hostname on master to fix pg_upgrade and InitDb issues in Kubernetes with encryption enabled. PLAT-18177
* Ensures reliable catalog rollback only with successful master upgrades during YSQL updates. PLAT-18178
* Ensures safer K8s rollbacks by tracking tserver upgrades and flag settings. PLAT-18178

## v2025.1.0.0 - July 23, 2025 {#v2025.1.0.0}

**Build:** `2025.1.0.0-b168`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.0.0/yugabytedb-2025.1.0.0-b168-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.0.0/yugabytedb-anywhere-2025.1.0.0-b168-third-party-licenses.html)

### Download

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.0.0/yba_installer_full-2025.1.0.0-b168-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

### Highlights

We're excited to announce the key features and enhancements in the 2025.1.0.0 release, designed to improve performance, usability, and management of your database environments.

**Custom Linux usernames and directories for on-premesis VMs** {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1803">}}

When provisioning on-premise DB nodes, the `node-agent-provision.sh` script now allows specifying custom Linux usernames and directories.
For more information, refer to [Automatically provision on-premises nodes](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/prepare/server-nodes-software/software-on-prem/#run-the-provisioning-script).

**YBA CLI** {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1879">}}

The YBA CLI, for interacting with YugabyteDB Anywhere from the command line, is now available in GA.
For more information, refer to [YugabyteDB Anywhere CLI](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/anywhere-automation/anywhere-cli/).

**Support bundle enhancements** {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1861">}}

You can now cancel the collection of support bundles. Collection is also parallelized for faster performance, and bundles include new information such as tablet layout and system logs.
For more information, refer to [Use support bundles](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/troubleshoot/universe-issues/#use-support-bundles).

### Known issues

* Before [upgrading from PostgreSQL 11 to PostgreSQL 15](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/manage-deployments/ysql-major-upgrade-yba/) for a multi-region universe, or a universe with more than 10,000 tables and indexes, increase the catalog upgrade timeout by setting the YugabyteDB Anywhwere runtime configuration parameter `yb.upgrade.wait_attempts_for_major_catalog_upgrade` to 60 or higher at the Universe scope. This prevents timeout issues during the PostgreSQL 15 catalog upgrade process.

  Refer to [Manage runtime configuration settings](../../../yugabyte-platform/administer-yugabyte-platform/manage-runtime-config/). You must be a Super Admin or Admin to set Universe runtime configuration flags.

* You cannot [upgrade from PostgreSQL 11 to PostgreSQL 15](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/manage-deployments/ysql-major-upgrade-yba/) for Kubernetes and OpenShift universes if either YugabyteDB Anywhere or database pods are deployed on different clusters, or if they use different service accounts.

### xCluster/DR API change notification

To enhance the reliability and resilience of xCluster and Disaster Recovery (DR) operations, we have introduced changes to the xCluster configuration API. Specifically, new properties have been added to the response payload of the `XClusterConfigController.getXClusterConfig()` endpoint.
These additions are classified as "breaking changes" for clients that enforce strict schema validation on API responses.

The following sections describe the changes, their impact, and the actions required for client applications.

#### API changes

The primary change affects the data structure returned when retrieving an xCluster configuration.

**Affected endpoints**

- `GET /api/v1/customers/{cUUID}/xcluster_configs/{xcUUID}`
- `GET /api/v1/customers/{cUUID}/dr_configs/{drUUID}`

**Affected object**

- `XClusterNamespaceConfig`

The `XClusterConfig` object returned by this API contains a list of namespaces. Each object in this list (XClusterNamespaceConfig) now includes three new required properties as decribed in the following table:

| Property name | Type | Description |
| :------------ | :--- | :---------- |
| backupUuid | UUID string, nullable | The UUID of the backup task used for bootstrapping the namespace during setup. Will be null if bootstrapping was not performed.
| restoreUuid | UUID string, nullable | The UUID of the restore task used for bootstrapping the namespace. Will be null if no restore operation was performed. |
| replicationSetupTime | string, nullable | An ISO 8601 timestamp indicating when replication was successfully configured for the namespace. Will be null if replication is not yet set up. |

These fields were introduced to persist the state of bootstrapping (via backup/restore) and replication setup, and also make the `XClusterNamespaceConfig` object more aligned with `XClusterTableConfig` object. Storing this information in the configuration object is a key part of the effort to make xCluster or DR setup tasks _retry-able_ and _abortable_.

#### Impact and action required

Older clients that perform strict JSON deserialization on the response from `getXClusterConfig` may fail. These clients are not expecting the `backupUuid`, `restoreUuid`, and `replicationSetupTime` fields and will likely throw an "unrecognized property" error. Clients that ignore unknown fields are not affected.

**Action required**: Update your data models for `XClusterNamespaceConfig` to include the three new fields. It is crucial that the client code can correctly handle null values for these properties, as they are not always populated.

### New features

* Perform [online upgrades to PostgreSQL 15](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/manage-deployments/ysql-major-upgrade-yba/) to ensure access to the latest performance improvements, new extension capabilities, and compliance with organizational upgrade policies. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="358">}}

* [CipherTrust support](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/security/create-kms-config/ciphertrust-kms/). You can now use Thales CipherTrust as the Key Management System (KMS) for encryption at rest. {{<tags/feature/ea idea="1227">}}

* [xCluster DR improvements](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/back-up-restore-universes/disaster-recovery/). NFS-based backup/restore for the initial full copy is improved (with an optional replication delay), failure handling is improved (retry, rollback, cancel support), and you can rotate certificates without reconfiguring xCluster replication. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1806">}}

* [RBAC](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/administer-yugabyte-platform/anywhere-rbac/) enhancements. You can now restrict users, such as DBAs, to manage only a specific subset of universes (while other DBAs manage other universes). {{<tags/feature/ga idea="509">}}

* Kubernetes

  * [Yugabyte Kubernetes operator](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/anywhere-automation/yb-kubernetes-operator/). A powerful tool designed to automate deploying, scaling, and managing YugabyteDB clusters in Kubernetes environments. It streamlines database operations, reducing manual effort for developers and operators. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1448">}}

    <!-- Other Kubernetes operator IDEA {{<tags/feature/ga idea="664">}} -->
    <!-- Other Kubernetes operator IDEA {{<tags/feature/ga idea="831">}} -->

  * Pause/resume and vertical scaling (specifically, changing the disk size for pods containing Master processes) is now supported. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1493">}}

  * Pod Disruption Budgets (PDBs) are now set for TServer and Master pod collections, rather than at the AZ level, for both new and upgraded universes. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1489">}}

  * [Support for Kubernetes CertManager with AWS private CA issuer](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/security/enable-encryption-in-transit/add-certificate-kubernetes/) for encryption in transit. When using encryption-in-transit with K8s-based universes, support has been added for aws-privateca-issuer. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="2023">}}

* Preemptible [Backups](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/back-up-restore-universes/). In-progress backups (such as scheduled ones) can now be automatically pre-empted by other universe actions that were formerly blocked. A preempted backup will automatically be restarted and retried after the other operation completes. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1636">}}

* [Automated migration to node agent](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/upgrade/prepare-to-upgrade/#node-agent). You can now have YugabyteDB Anywhere automatically upgrade legacy universes that were provisioned without node agent via a banner alert. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1789">}}

* [Deprecation of cron on DB nodes](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/upgrade/prepare-to-upgrade/). The use of cron to start YB services on DB nodes has been deprecated. Instead, use systemd. YBA now flags any existing DB nodes using cron with a warning containing remediation instructions. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1805">}}

* [GCP hyperdisk support](/v2025.1/deploy/checklist/#disks). Google Cloud Hyperdisks (Balanced and Extreme) are now supported disk type options when creating universes on Google Cloud Platform. These disk types are only available in some GCP regions. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1946">}}

* [Batching of rolling operations](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/manage-deployments/edit-config-flags/#batched-rolling-restart). YugabyteDB Anywhere now supports applying changes to multiple nodes in VMs/K8s simultaneously (and in parallel) in each availability zone during rolling operations, such as software upgrades and flag changes. This can reduce the time required to perform rolling operations on large clusters by 2x, 3x, or more depending on the (configurable) batch size. {{<tags/feature/ea idea="444">}}
<!-- {{<tags/feature/ea idea="1710">}} -->

* [Monitor universe tasks](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/manage-deployments/retry-failed-task/). The Task History log has been augmented to show the before and after state for each task. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1224">}}

* [Improved support for bi-directional xCluster](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/manage-deployments/xcluster-replication/bidirectional-replication/#ddl-operations-in-bidirectional-replication). Bi-directional xCluster supports adding a non-empty table to the replication stream, and safeguards against the unsafe (and potentially data-overwriting) action of restarting replication. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1533">}}

* [YSQL Audit Logs](/v2025.1/yugabyte-platform/alerts-monitoring/universe-logging). Support for producing and exporting audit logs of PostgreSQL statements (which is often required for compliance with government, financial, or ISO certifications) to a log aggregator. This is based on the pgaudit extension. This is based on the pgaudit extension. {{<tags/feature/ea idea="1773">}}

* [Pagination for Task list API](https://api-docs.yugabyte.com/docs/yugabyte-platform/6b11a331b0b14-list-tasks-paginated). The tasks_list REST API now supports paginated (batched) retrieval. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1883">}}

* [Semi-automatic xCluster replication](/v2025.1/deploy/multi-dc/async-replication/async-replication-transactional/). Provides simplified management of YSQL transactional xCluster replication by operating at the database level instead of the table level. This reduces the need for IT admin involvement when tables are created or dropped, as xCluster management is only required for adding or removing entire databases from replication. DDL operations can now be performed by authorized users or DBAs without needing elevated privileges. {{<tags/feature/ga>}}

### Change log

<details>
  <summary>View the detailed changelog</summary>

### Improvements

* Enhances the YBA Installer with better status reporting and reliable upgrade checks. PLAT-13040,PLAT-12428
* Ensures successful `pexvenv` generation by testing and marking `ybops` import. PLAT-15112
* Restores previous handling of incomplete pex venv generation. PLAT-15112
* Enables gzip compression for core dumps to optimize storage use. PLAT-15279
* Automatically compresses core files using lz4 before saving. PLAT-15279
* Adds Unix timestamps and compresses core dumps for easier debugging. PLAT-15279
* Adds a global uncaught exception handler to YugabyteDB Anywhere. PLAT-15377
* Enables configuring the federation scrape interval for systems with many tables and nodes. PLAT-15474
* Simplifies the frozen universe error message in YBA to help users understand the cause of a failed task. PLAT-15545
* Adjusts default scrape timeout setting for Prometheus Jobs to avoid metrics calculation problems. PLAT-15625
* Preserves journald logs across reboots, limiting space with a 30-day retention and 400 MB max usage. PLAT-15740
* Allows direct configuration changes and restarts if TLS certificates expire, skipping unnecessary upgrades. PLAT-16176
* Enhances metric dashboard to show delta in "Total Consensus Change Config" count. PLAT-16307
* Ensures unique zone names within each provider to avoid confusion and enhance clarity in the UI. PLAT-16367
* Enables single connection as default for YSQL upgrades, conserving memory. PLAT-16479
* Stops YBA from logging to system logs and journalctl, preventing /var directory bloat. PLAT-16685
* Automatically deletes associated backup policies when a universe is removed. PLAT-17197
* Displays post-master failover messages earlier, even if some nodes are down. PLAT-15924
* Skip SSH key parsing for node-agent communication type. PLAT-16145
* Removes a redundant SSH key parsing check for node agent communication. PLAT-16145
* Enhances node agent logging and supports easier debugging in YBA. PLAT-16550
* Enhances node agent logging in YBA for easier debugging. PLAT-16550
* Reduces failover task execution time by skipping the `UpdateConsistencyCheck` subtask. PLAT-17037
* Displays aggregated table replication status as the namespace status based on severity. PLAT-17273
* Speeds up support bundle collection by processing components in parallel. PLAT-10615
* Adds a preflight check for OpenSSL version 1.1.1+ on Python 3.10+. PLAT-15313
* Speeds up sensitive flag parsing at YBA startup by using parallel processing. PLAT-15965
* Ensures HA failover works across different timezones by using epoch millisecond time. PLAT-15970
* Enhances error messages for preview flag validation, indicating server type and missing flags. PLAT-16091
* Adds a Tablet Report component to the Support Bundle for better diagnostics. PLAT-16280
* Enables collecting Prometheus metrics using custom PromQL queries in support bundles. PLAT-16282
* Adds a new API to estimate support bundle sizes for better planning and management. PLAT-16283
* Enables alert threshold configuration based on replication frequency. PLAT-16454
* Enhances HA standby alerts to use minutes directly, aligning thresholds with replication frequency. PLAT-16454
* Include YBC ports in on-prem preflight checks for better setup validation. PLAT-16465
* Ensures cloud instances match the node UUID tag before actions in Python ybops. PLAT-16610
* Allows custom configuration of GCP connection draining timeout. PLAT-17356
* Fixes AWS KMS exception logging. PLAT-17445
* Always sends `RollMaxBatchSize` in `UniverseResp`, even if the feature is disabled. PLAT-15574
* Enhances the master failover banner UI with clearer messaging. PLAT-15640
* Enables editing of `Assign Public IP` and `AWS ARN` fields in edit mode. PLAT-15867
* Enhances security by preventing edits to pre-set YSQL configuration parameters, allowing only additions in edit mode. PLAT-16022
* Clarifies warning text when `PG_COMPATIBILITY` is ON and restricts editing in `pg_conf_csv`. PLAT-16022
* Enhances the error message for TLS adjustments on Kubernetes post-creation. PLAT-16075
* Enhances the version extraction script in the node agent installer for better macOS compatibility. PLAT-16569
* Enables LDAP URL validation to support IPv6 addresses. PLAT-17180
* Skips consistency checks when resuming a universe. PLAT-15443
* Adds custom PromQL queries and new components in the support bundle UI. PLAT-16286
* Enables viewing estimated sizes for support bundles in the YBA UI. PLAT-16312
* Modify PITR endpoints to return both taskUUID and pitrUUID. PLAT-16805
* Allows setting a custom timeout for `DeleteReplicationOnSource` during failover. PLAT-17038
* Speeds up failover by skipping `createTransferXClusterCertsRemoveTasks` on the source universe. PLAT-17039

### Bug fixes

* Disables excessive logs related to `Explicitly set HTTP header 'Transfer-Encoding:chunked` for a quieter logging experience. PLAT-11189
* Allows Prometheus log file to write logs, enhancing clarity and avoiding confusion in the status output. PLAT-11305
* Allows systemd logs for Prometheus only on versions 240 and up, aligning log path settings in YBA. PLAT-11305
* Removes exception stack trace logs during backup for non-operator controlled universes. PLAT-12232
* Prevents failure in `tmp_dir` flag updates during rolling restarts by tracking changes. PLAT-12263
* Collects universe logs in support bundle considering the `log_dir` GFlag for both master and tserver. PLAT-12433
* Ensures access key updates in the Redux store immediately reflect in the universe form dropdown options. PLAT-13436
* Enables hostname in UBI-8 images and improves support bundle collection on Kubernetes. PLAT-14045
* Corrects argument parsing failure in disk_io_failure_detection_py3.py script when values contain `=`. PLAT-14435
* Fixes Hashicorp vault's KMS configuration to retain custom key names on edits and displays the key name under KMS config's Show Details area. PLAT-14968,PLAT-14966
* Ensures alert emails now adhere to the correct format. PLAT-15317
* Fixes YSQL operations latency alert to use correct units (milliseconds). PLAT-15404
* Updates TLS cipher suite list for Prometheus to enhance security. PLAT-15448
* Handles IPv6 loopback addresses in platform backup scripts. PLAT-15499
* Sets ulimits based on a specified flag for RHEL 8/9 machines. PLAT-15540
* Ensures proper escaping of strings in JSON templates and adds logging, fixing issues in webhook template placeholders. PLAT-15607
* Changes GCP pricing URL to a reliable internal one and ignores errors during queries. PLAT-15655
* Removes "Alerts are snoozed" text from the Health widget. PLAT-15744
* Fixes NVMe device naming scheme for c3 and c3d instances on GCP. PLAT-15750
* Adds a bootstrap summary to the DR config creation modal to clarify which tables will be bootstrapped. PLAT-15973
* Corrects table ID retrieval in DDL atomicity and YBA node health scripts. PLAT-15980
* Adds a step to set encryption keys during non-rolling upgrades on k8s. PLAT-16067
* Adds alerts for YCQL microsecond precision operations and enhances remote bootstrap alerts with percentage thresholds. PLAT-16253,PLAT-16134
* Enhances `::mount_ephemeral_drives` to support non-standard disk layouts, including volume groups. PLAT-16266
* Enables viewing specific tserver metrics on Kubernetes by adjusting metric query processing. PLAT-16268
* Changes default label for tserver/master metrics from `HOSTNAME` to `EXPORTED_INSTANCE`. PLAT-16268
* Refreshes KMS tokens at 70% TTL and hourly via YBA backend. PLAT-16290
* Enhances node expression logic in alerts to ensure accuracy and visibility of affected nodes. PLAT-16346
* Ensures certificate verification compatibility across all OpenSSL versions. PLAT-16389
* Handles Azure images without plan information to avoid errors. PLAT-16404
* Prevents backup failures during upgrades by managing incompatible flags. PLAT-16411
* Enhances latency alerts to display affected node names and ensures alert thresholds are in milliseconds. PLAT-16426
* Fixes LDAP authentication to return correct search results for mismatching email and DN entries. PLAT-16543
* Addresses critical security vulnerabilities by updating cryptographic libraries in YugabyteDB installations. PLAT-16551
* Ensures K8s always displays TServer and Master configurations, irrespective of `use_k8s_custom_resources` flag. PLAT-16577
* Allows regenerating self-signed certs during reconfiguration when needed. PLAT-16340,PLAT-16616
* Ensures `yba-ctl preflight` command runs smoothly without `as_root` setting errors. PLAT-16668
* Supports health checks for multiple installed NTP services. PLAT-16709
* Now supports `awsHostedZoneName` in AWS provider edit payload to prevent failures. PLAT-16723
* Switches SSL certificate verification to use fingerprint comparison, enhancing compatibility and reducing task failures. PLAT-16726
* Ensures master statefulsets are not deployed in read replica clusters to avoid confusion and potential errors. PLAT-16727,PLAT-11348
* Disables clock drift check for Kubernetes clusters and when disabled by config. PLAT-16819
* Ensures the Metrics page in YBA handles proxy settings correctly. PLAT-16868
* Simplifies the AsyncTask interface in the node agent, reducing method count. PLAT-16886
* Enhances database health checks and process management for better stability and performance. PLAT-16197,PLAT-14999,PLAT-16895,PLAT-15742
* Ensures all cloudInfo fields are merged in YBA UI before edit requests, preventing mischaracterized edits. PLAT-16924
* Enables force deletion even if `DeleteBootstrapIds` subtask fails. PLAT-16982
* Enhances RR cluster deletion by making it retryable, abortable, and classifying it as a placement modification task. PLAT-16991
* Enhances node agent to anticipate certificate expiration and enable prompt renewal. PLAT-17056
* Adds retry for disk mount/unmount during OS patching and ensures volume attachment before VM start. PLAT-17094
* Re-enables node safety checks in YBM, ensuring nodes are safe to take down. PLAT-17097
* Re-disables the cluster consistency check for YBM dual-NIC configurations. PLAT-17097
* Triggers full backup instead of incremental if a scheduled full backup is missed. PLAT-17116
* Enhances node agent installation for manual provisioning in YNP to be idempotent. PLAT-17141
* Enables conditional validation for AWS keys based on IAM role settings. PLAT-17192
* Enables clearer metrics and alerts for backup deletions. PLAT-17251
* Ensures TLS toggle and cert rotation manage `YBC` flags on dedicated masters. PLAT-17472
* Ensures YBA runs in UTC to maintain consistent timestamp handling. PLAT-17486
* Increases the `nproc` limit to support larger T-Servers. PLAT-17490
* Revamps YBA installer handling of self-signed certs, adding `yba-ctl certs generate` command. PLAT-17535
* Ensures accurate replica distribution across zones for geo-partitioning scenarios. PLAT-17700,PLAT-17374
* Enhances `yba-ctl` rollback to better handle filesystem and service restoration. PLAT-17717
* Blocks installs and upgrades on systems with incompatible GLIBC versions. PLAT-17725
* Enhances Kubernetes support for Prometheus backups and restores, including retaining PostgreSQL dumps on restore. PLAT-8626
* Prevents null pointer errors when adding `Name` instance tags to universes. PLAT-9827
* Fixes schema version initialization by skipping missing values and ensuring migrations run correctly. PLAT-15733
* Retries asRoot migration safely to ensure successful upgrades. PLAT-15733
* Fixes the `yba-ctl` build issue caused by Go build modifications. PLAT-15733
* Fixes an issue with listing customer configs when DR metadata is inconsistent. PLAT-16026
* Prevents null pointer exceptions during backup restores in YBA. PLAT-17627
* Now enables IMDSv2 by default on UI and backend to enhance EC2 instance security. PLAT-14030
* Changes YBA callhome URL to new diagnostics endpoint and assures only non-sensitive, unique diagnostics data is sent. PLAT-15205
* Ensures Alma 8 is the default image due to performance issues with Alma 9 on GCP. PLAT-15311
* Switches the default YugabyteDB managed cloud image back to AlmaLinux 8.9. PLAT-15311
* Configures cgroups during the provision phase for non-RHEL9 machines, ensuring successful setup. PLAT-15328
* Adds `disable_v1_api_token` flag to prevent DDoS by skipping invalid token loops. PLAT-15489
* Ensures "Pause Universe" feature applies only to AWS, not Azure. PLAT-15556
* Restores the "Pause Universe" option for Azure universes in the UI. PLAT-15556
* Fixes database creation for PG-15 by introducing a flag to manage roles. PLAT-15634
* Displays continents instead of country borders on YBA UI maps to maintain neutrality. PLAT-15639
* Enhances log redaction for GCP private keys, ensuring they are not exposed. PLAT-15674
* Prevents background node-agent installer from running for on-prem non-manual providers. PLAT-15713
* Add a default one-day cooldown for retrying node-agent installation. PLAT-15765
* Enhances `::clock` to better select a valid Python executable if multiple versions are present. PLAT-15771
* Ensures `yba-ctl install` works on CIS hardened images by adjusting file permissions. PLAT-15780
* Resolves conflicting Google dependencies that previously caused failures in GCP KMS operations. PLAT-15786
* Stops downloading sha1 during release creation, as only sha256 values are expected. PLAT-15791
* Ensures master addresses are correctly resolved during the universe_join_existing_cluster subtask. PLAT-15830
* Ensures node operations succeed when DB audit logging is enabled without wrongly resetting flags. PLAT-15833
* Ensures systemd service scopes are determined before setup. PLAT-15918
* Ensures `cgroup` sizes update correctly after node resizing. PLAT-15952
* Eliminates unnecessary master restarts during disk resizing in older versions. PLAT-16002
* Prevents node health checks from failing due to unrelated full disks in Kubernetes. PLAT-16049
* Allows skipping permission setting during dataless installs. PLAT-16064
* Enables `postmaster_cgroup` flag based on user intent without needing additional runtime configs. PLAT-16142
* Supports parsing OpenSSH private keys to prevent failures. PLAT-16144
* Ensures YBA Installer correctly updates migration tracking without overcounting schemas. PLAT-16179
* Fixes YBM provisioning failure when core dump directory already exists. PLAT-16248
* Upgrades Jinja2 to fix Ansible templating errors when using custom SSH ports. PLAT-16262
* Reverts YBA UI search to substring search, avoiding crashes with special characters. PLAT-16419
* Corrects default YSQL port display and enhances error handling for replication slots. PLAT-16423,PLAT-16301,PLAT-16429
* Stops symlink issues during directory creation in playbook tasks. PLAT-16461
* Fixes node reservation when using dedicated masters with varying instance types in a single operation. PLAT-16486
* Upgrades libcurl version to ensure proxy settings work correctly. PLAT-16504
* Upgrades libcurl to version >=7.86.0 to support CIDR notation in NO_PROXY settings. PLAT-16504
* Allows restoring a universe on the same universe without renaming keyspaces. PLAT-16553
* Destroys manual-onprem universes stuck in DECOMMISSIONED state correctly. PLAT-16631
* Saves new disk size in the database first to prevent errors during concurrent edits. PLAT-16637
* Ensures the `semanage` command runs successfully in the node agent installer. PLAT-16669
* Enables password changes for ReadOnly and ConnectOnly roles via the `reset_password` API. PLAT-16734
* Ensures Kubernetes operator correctly handles storage configurations without setting default S3 attributes. PLAT-16760
* Fixes Azure resource deletion by correctly reading the error code field. PLAT-16769
* Enables upgrading universes without unintended server cert rotation. PLAT-16812
* Fixes the issue where changing timezone doesn't update on zoomed metrics graphs. PLAT-16833
* Upgrades Prometheus in YBA installer to version 3.2.1, enhancing security. PLAT-16872
* Upgrades Prometheus in helm charts to version 3.2.1, enhancing security. PLAT-16872
* Upgrades PostgreSQL to version 14.17 to address critical security vulnerabilities. PLAT-16873
* Upgrades key dependencies for enhanced security against critical vulnerabilities. PLAT-16874,PLAT-16873,PLAT-16876
* Upgrades azcopy to version 10.28.0 to enhance security and performance. PLAT-16893
* Upgrades address security vulnerabilities in Netty, Json-smart, and Mina-core, ensuring increased safety against potential attacks. PLAT-16894
* Prevents YBA crash loop caused by invalid OIDC configuration settings. PLAT-16905
* Handles commas in TLS algorithm lists for different OS compatibility. PLAT-16931
* Fixes issue where prometheus-based alerts for clock drift were not triggering. PLAT-16984
* Fixes script error to correctly handle the 10th argument during PostgreSQL restore. PLAT-16990
* Speeds up Azure blob deletion and handles backups more efficiently. PLAT-17040
* Fixes incorrect UTC time conversion in Prometheus component. PLAT-17130
* Fixes the directory path for installing ClockBound binaries. PLAT-17135
* Enhanced the restore function to properly filter keyspaces during a single keyspace restore. PLAT-17146
* Ensures K8s Helm override form correctly submits pre-check requests. PLAT-17184
* Ensures `SetupYNP` only prepares the node agent package without creating an entry. PLAT-17194
* Fixes issues with creating universes and editing read replicas when primary cluster payload is missing. PLAT-17224
* Ensures Ansible provisioning validation works on Ubuntu by updating the scripting method. PLAT-17349
* Enables retrying `CreateUniverse` for on-prem nodes by modifying preflight checks. PLAT-17368
* Ensures YBA HA promotion success even if it fails midway after a restore. PLAT-17369
* Ensures node updates during tasks won't overwrite live data with stale information. PLAT-17405
* Enables the "Install Node Agent" action for on-prem universes with available SSH keys. PLAT-17436
* Enables a UI banner to prompt enabling Node Agent auto-installation for convenience. PLAT-17437
* Disables background node agent installer by default, but tracks universes needing migration. PLAT-17435,PLAT-17449
* Adds a field to track node agent status updates on universe nodes. PLAT-17520
* Skips THP setting on CentOS 7 and AL2 to enhance stability. PLAT-17545
* Ensures NFS backups in Kubernetes universes proceed despite minor errors. PLAT-17638
* Removes the memory preflight check from node_agent in YNP. PLAT-17647
* Ensures `collect_metrics.sh` script re-uploads if a node name is reused. PLAT-17671
* Updates outdated CRDs in the charts repo manually and sets up automation for future updates. PLAT-17749
* Sets execute permission on core dump files for accurate reporting. PLAT-17750
* Ensures node agent installs correctly on hardened images by fixing permission issues. PLAT-17777
* Adds a health check for "THP issues" when RSS exceeds TCMalloc usage. PLAT-17810,PLAT-17637
* Deprecates the "role" field in the Users API response. PLAT-17902
* Locks certifi version to support Python 3.6, preventing AWS create universe failures. PLAT-17917
* Adds collection of system logs to support bundles for enhanced diagnostics. PLAT-12497
* Enables copying and pasting SSH private keys during provider setup. PLAT-13056
* Retries failed CREATE TABLESPACE queries up to 3 times to ensure success. PLAT-14388
* Ensures log collection includes both compressed and uncompressed files and date ranges are inclusive. PLAT-14935
* Allows setting `master_join_existing_cluster` GFlag during Helm install and universe configuration in K8s. PLAT-15034
* Eliminates the necessity for clock sync check in node_health.py for Kubernetes universes. PLAT-15196
* Adds `useLdapSsl` flag for LDAP universe sync to support SSL connectivity. PLAT-15197
* Adds `useLdapSsl` flag for LDAP universe sync to support SSL connectivity. PLAT-15197
* Enables successful installation/upgrade of YBA on K8s with TLS through Jenkins. PLAT-15219
* Prevents sensitive information leaks in YBA logs by modifying gflag values in Java and Python layers. PLAT-15307
* Ensures the `update_lb_config` task correctly performs its work rather than clearing out prematurely. PLAT-15349
* Corrects universe update status and ensures load balancer configuration tasks run successfully. PLAT-15349
* Upgrades PostgreSQL to version 14.13 in YBA, enhancing security. PLAT-15352
* Upgrades PostgreSQL version in YBA helm charts to enhance security. PLAT-15352
* Allows using UTC for cron expressions in backup schedules to correct prior faulty commits. PLAT-15379
* Allows using UTC for cron expressions in backup schedules to correct prior faulty commits. PLAT-15379
* Restores the ability to use local time for Cron expressions in backup schedules. PLAT-15379
* Pins specific Golang package versions to avoid incompatibilities. PLAT-15441
* Ensures compatibility with older Kubernetes versions by handling missing `AvailableReplicas` in stateful sets. PLAT-15483
* Offers more precise error codes during YSQL dump and snapshot failures in YBC instead of the generic `COMMAND_FAILED` status. PLAT-15557
* Fixes inaccurate CPU per-process metrics to reflect true usage. PLAT-15558
* Standardizes future RPC tasks by separating node-agent preflight check. PLAT-15566
* Migrates to Google Cloud v1 APIs, enhancing stability and resolving issues. PLAT-15579
* Adds a retry system for dump-entities check before node destruction, reducing potential inaccuracies. PLAT-15608
* Removes the unnecessary `sshUserOverride` during provisioning to prevent OS upgrade failures. PLAT-15632
* Adds an async task Java client for node agent, mirroring existing Python client. PLAT-15661
* Ensures `polkit` package is installed on AlmaLinux 9 nodes to enable linger. PLAT-15698
* Ensures UIs for storage configuration and disaster recovery creation load properly after DR deletions. PLAT-15720
* Standardizes flag groups across all 2024.1 releases for consistency. PLAT-15798
* Adds flag groups file for the 2024.2 release. PLAT-15799
* Disables custom YSQL port override on the universe page for Kubernetes. PLAT-15815
* Fixes inconsistent pagination on the Platform Configuration page. PLAT-15820
* Upgrades Java dependencies to enhance security and patch vulnerabilities. PLAT-15837
* Exposes `roll N nodes` configuration options to users as public flags. PLAT-15925
* Ensures Yba Installer symlinking checks and handles pre-existing links to prevent errors. PLAT-15943
* Uses old master addresses for disk resizing in primary cluster pods during full move scenarios. PLAT-16069
* Enables volume resizing in EDIT mode for RR clusters. PLAT-16118
* Uses a custom thread pool for `collectReplicationClusterData` to prevent blocking. PLAT-16169
* Increases GET DR config API reliability on unhealthy universes. PLAT-16169
* Tracks connection manager memory usage in YBA per process screen. PLAT-16182
* Tracks connection manager memory usage in YBA per process screen. PLAT-16182
* Skips prechecks if Node2Node certificates have expired during certificate rotation tasks. PLAT-16203
* Corrects the error message on the backups tab for connect-only users. PLAT-16271
* Sets new memory and tablet limits only for universes with DB version 2024.2.0 and newer. PLAT-16275
* Installs polkit and chronie on Amazon Linux 2023 to ensure universe creation. PLAT-16279
* Ensures accurate timestamp display in the live query panel by specifying the correct format. PLAT-16415
* Adds option in `list_flags` API to display experimental flags. PLAT-16425
* Disables the YBA minimum version check when adding a release. PLAT-16433
* Prevents both instances from entering standby after a peer promotion. PLAT-16468
* Corrects label errors in `rpc_latency_sum` and `rpc_latency_count` metrics. PLAT-16544
* Allows S3 bucket access through both global and private endpoints using the new `globalBucketAccess` field. PLAT-16571
* Ensures collect_metrics_wrapper.sh aligns with node_exporter's metrics path. PLAT-16581
* Fixes systemd upgrade issues and ensures node exporter consistency during upgrades. PLAT-16581
* Disables volume count edits for both MASTER and TSERVER nodes in K8s UI. PLAT-16627
* Enables passing correlation ID from YBA to node agent for RPCs via Python processes. PLAT-16646
* Upgrades spring-security-core to 5.8.16 to address {{<cve "CVE-2024-38821">}}. PLAT-16648
* Fixes timezone-related metrics display to prevent data disappearance. PLAT-16704
* Fixes disk IOPS and throughput reset issue during universe edits. PLAT-16661,PLAT-16724
* Allows deleting Kubernetes universes even when paused. PLAT-16808
* Enables Kubernetes-based backup and restore for Prometheus in YugabyteDB. PLAT-16824
* Ensures `dedicatedNodes` is set to true for all Kubernetes universes. PLAT-16827
* Enables more flexible regex matching for S3 Host Base domains. PLAT-16842
* Enables faster downloads by removing unnecessary locks during parallel operations. PLAT-16844
* Blocks creation of cron-based universes in YNP to prevent health check failures. PLAT-16879
* Ensures crontab binary exists before disabling services on Amazon Linux. PLAT-16902
* Adds a refresh button to the slow queries UI for easier data updates. PLAT-16917
* Fixes configuration display and saving issues for migrated universes from 2.20 to 2024.2. PLAT-16918
* Enables scraping of node agent metrics through YBA proxy endpoint. PLAT-16939
* Fixes UUID comparison in manual incremental backup creation. PLAT-16953
* Appends `node_ip` to the config file to prevent race conditions. PLAT-16960
* Fixes errors in health checks when changing node IPs manually. PLAT-16963
* Groups all prechecks into a single subtask group for better user experience. PLAT-16965
* Removes duplicate case in switch statement to fix compilation errors. PLAT-16974
* Enhances PerfAdvisor by ignoring new fields and supporting custom temp directories. PLAT-17020,PLAT-14028
* Fixes incorrect data-test-id for Full Move button and adds translation to Run Prechecks. PLAT-17034
* Reduces UI flickering in task tabs during database upgrades. PLAT-17057
* Fixes deadlock issue in backups by using sequential streams instead of parallel streams. PLAT-17063
* Moves YSQL server health checks to after cluster configuration updates during universe creation. PLAT-17085
* Ensures YSQL health checks run successfully after cluster configuration updates during universe creation. PLAT-17085
* Ensures Prometheus data directory script runs properly using `sh` and moves directories correctly. PLAT-17091
* Enables `xCluster` creation only with specified table UUIDs despite new flags. PLAT-17105
* Fixes xCluster creation in YBA CLI by updating client to handle bootstrap tables UUID. PLAT-17105
* Sends HTTP 529 response when `tasks_list` API encounters exceptions. PLAT-17111
* Allows specifying full URNs for Azure vnet/subnet to improve resource grouping. PLAT-17115
* Enables correct THP parameter settings in Ansible and YNP provisioning. PLAT-17167,PLAT-171678,PLAT-17171
* Ensures core dump file generation pattern matches the one from Ansible playbooks. PLAT-17201
* Enhances IP validation in multi-cluster deployments for accuracy. PLAT-17205
* Enables server control via RPC to node agent, gated by a global runtime feature flag. PLAT-17216
* Enhances cluster consistency checks to handle multiple IP addresses per node. PLAT-17222
* Speeds up upgrade processes by moving pre-checks to asynchronous tasks. PLAT-17238
* Ensures alert for orphan masters is raised correctly in specific cases. PLAT-17257
* Adds metrics to track and alert on node agent installation failures. PLAT-17274
* Fixes issue where adding a node incorrectly re-creates existing nodes in async clusters. PLAT-17311
* Enables task checkpointing with an optional runtime flag for easy disabling. PLAT-17325
* Writes PG upgrade check logs to a temporary file for better error parsing. PLAT-17418
* Enables Istio compatibility for TLS-enabled YugabyteDB clusters. PLAT-17513
* Ensures custom pre-provisioning hooks run before any software installations. PLAT-17531
* Ensures arrow key presses do not change tabs when using the support bundle modal. PLAT-17578
* Resolves pod restart issues during Kubernetes volume resize combined with other spec changes. PLAT-17659
* Fixes the tablespace backup issue by correctly setting backup flags. PLAT-17682
* Moves `node_health` process stats from `/tmp` to prevent truncation issues. PLAT-17693,PLAT-17219
* Ensures restore preflight fails correctly when PITR is out of window. PLAT-17719
* Exits early if a YNP node cannot connect to YBA. PLAT-17734
* Ensures UI updates correctly when preflight checks fail during Linux upgrades. PLAT-17756
* Expands GLIBC precheck compatibility for various system versions. PLAT-17784
* Restores visibility of detailed subtask lists for admin users. PLAT-17789,PLAT-17761
* Enhances backup reliability by preventing hangs during master address resolution failures. PLAT-17886
* Ensures YBA upgrades from 2.18 to 2025.1 handle migrations correctly on first attempt. PLAT-17940
* Enables attach-detach script to work with YBA on HTTPS platforms. PLAT-9692
* Increases client-side inactivity timeout to 12 hours for enhanced security. PLAT-10519
* Ensures masters and tservers are verified to belong to the correct universe after startup. PLAT-11696
* Enables aborting and cleaning up of hung support bundle creation tasks. PLAT-12950
* Ensures XCluster deletion can proceed by using either source or target universe UUID when available. PLAT-13785
* Reclassifies all BETA flags to either PUBLIC or INTERNAL. PLAT-14322
* Correctly calculates IO write bytes for per-process metrics. PLAT-15440
* Filters out multiple pricing entries for Azure instances to ensure accurate cost display. PLAT-15554
* Blocks pausing universes with ephemeral storage to prevent data loss. PLAT-15569
* Adds KMS configuration names to EAR expiry alerts for clearer identification. PLAT-15668
* Allows root install directory change on rehydration to avoid "No directory found" error messages by setting YBA to re-trigger the path fixing code. PLAT-15695
* Standardizes YBC server upgrades to use Ansible, ensuring consistency and control. PLAT-15703
* Backups now retry every 2 minutes until successful, facilitating initial setup reliability. PLAT-15802
* Upgrades Single Sign-On libraries to enhance security and compatibility. PLAT-15932
* Separates "Force Delete" into an advanced option for safer node cleanup. PLAT-15942
* Updates and corrects text on the YBA node agent UI. PLAT-160407
* Enables pausing and resuming Kubernetes-based universes. PLAT-16078
* Disables rolling restarts for K8s operator-managed universes in the UI. PLAT-16082
* Enables off-cluster PITR feature with the `feature_flags.off_cluster_pitr_enabled` flag. PLAT-16149
* Calculates CPU usage using total metrics for more accuracy. PLAT-16174
* Removes unnecessary blacklist modification step from the Kubernetes pause universe process. PLAT-16196
* Allows yb-controller restart without stopping during rollback on tserver nodes. PLAT-16247
* Prevents "Aww Snap" error when start time exceeds end time in Metrics UI. PLAT-16254
* Resuming Kubernetes now reuses previous values, ensuring proper configuration without needing override files. PLAT-16326
* Blocks enabling TLS after deployment for K8 universes in EDIT mode. PLAT-16368
* Ensures all CDC replication slots display correctly in the UI, even if associated namespaces are deleting. PLAT-16420
* Ensures timezone dropdown defaults to the set preference after clearing or refreshing. PLAT-16606,PLAT-16705
* Ensures Kubernetes resumes only after YBC server starts. PLAT-16722
* Fixes inconsistent `useTimeSync` setting for K8s and OnPrem universes. PLAT-16749
* Allows empty fields in Cert Manager Issuer during K8s setup. PLAT-16758,PLAT-16759
* Ensures `semanage fcontext` runs regardless of SELinux mode to prevent node-agent issues. PLAT-16762
* Enables RunApiTriggeredHooks to correctly mark updateSucceeded as true. PLAT-16839
* Extracts `node_exporter` based on architecture and enhances Python support. PLAT-16871
* Ensures tag changes are saved and visible in audit logs. PLAT-16875
* Fixes node state accuracy during resize task retries. PLAT-16916
* Blocks cron-based universe creation when Ansible provisioning is disabled. PLAT-16925
* Ensures subtask details update correctly when main tasks complete. PLAT-16961
* Fixes the display of TServer label for disk volume stats in K8s environments. PLAT-16964
* Ensures the task banner updates with new tasks on launch by maintaining universe state. PLAT-16970
* Ensures correct scheduling of incremental backups by updating full backup times first. PLAT-16972
* Removes YEDIS option from CREATE and EDIT modes in the UI, ensuring a cleaner interface. PLAT-16983,PLAT-17015
* Updates the xCluster version threshold to `2024.1.3.0-b104` on the YBA UI to ensure accuracy in displaying semi-automatic mode availability. PLAT-17045
* Enhances backup and restore by reconfiguring YBC on all queryable nodes, not just `Running` or `ToBeRemoved`. PLAT-17252
* Adds YugabyteDB package support to the YNP module. PLAT-17260
* Allows configuring the SSHD daemon via YNP for custom SSH ports. PLAT-17283
* Corrects counting of failed tables for DR error banners. PLAT-17348
* Enhances handling and defaults of YBA installer configs. PLAT-17361,PLAT-17426
* Allows configuring the timeout for PostgreSQL upgrade checks, defaulting to 600 seconds. PLAT-17473
* Enables linger to prevent systemd failures during service launches. PLAT-17556
* Shows original messages for failed tasks for better clarity. PLAT-17626
* Adds Kubernetes overrides to API examples for creating universes. PLAT-8019
* Ensures query call counts exceed integer limits by using long data types. PLAT-16470
* Enable `yb.skip_version_checks` to bypass software upgrade version checks. PLAT-17780
* Collect metrics from nodes joining or leaving the cluster during edit tasks. PLAT-15312
* Enhances Namespaced service support in MCS-based universes. PLAT-15318
* Disables automatic addition of releases on YBM startup. PLAT-15395
* Allows retrieval of shasum file for URL downloads and adds SHA256 to downloaded releases, aiding in artifact validation. PLAT-15581,PLAT-15580
* Allows users to set the wait time between Kubernetes rolling tasks in the UI. PLAT-15589
* Fixes legend name and corrects a typo in the Open Files metric for consistency. PLAT-15592
* Enables per-process metrics in UI and master by default. PLAT-15673
* Allows users to configure `scrape_interval` and `scrape_timeout` in Kubernetes Helm charts and YBA installer. PLAT-15714
* Ensures Prometheus rollback functions correctly by modifying symlinks. PLAT-15759
* Enables using IAM roles on DB nodes for S3 backups and restores, controlled by `s3.use_db_nodes_iam_role_for_backup`. PLAT-15859
* Adds detailed Kubernetes task information to YBA logs for better debugging. PLAT-16012
* Standardizes xCluster naming in RBAC permissions modal to `Manage xCluster`. PLAT-16061
* Renames "Snooze" to "Snooze Failover" in auto master failover actions. PLAT-16080
* Enables runtime configuration of Off-cluster PITR with a new flag. PLAT-16160
* Enhances visibility of connection pooling information by relocating it to direct subtext. PLAT-16193
* Ensures YBA only runs on Python 3.10 or 3.11 and updates OpenSSL checks accordingly. PLAT-16194
* Fixes the installer check to accurately detect existing installations. PLAT-16207
* Adds Prometheus user to the Yugabyte group for better AMI compatibility. PLAT-16274
* Allows `prometheus` user to read metrics by restarting `node_exporter`. PLAT-16274
* Handles missing image bundles gracefully by throwing an API error. PLAT-16351
* Enhances error handling in `yba-ctl` to prevent infinite loops and crashes from unhandled directory creation errors. PLAT-16467
* Enables database-scoped xCluster config creation by default. PLAT-16514
* Improves API change reviews by formatting diff outputs with one item per line. PLAT-16528
* Fixes minor misalignment in the certificate view modal. PLAT-16533
* Prompts users for confirmation if an existing config file will be overwritten. PLAT-16617
* Allows users to customize the YB Controller RPC Port in the Create Universe UI. PLAT-16632
* Standardizes on-prem instance labels for consistency across UI components. PLAT-16633
* Enhances `yba-ctl` efficiency by skipping needless state file updates when no changes occur. PLAT-16641
* Ignores consistency checks on retries when finding a tserver fails. PLAT-16667
* Prevents failures in OperatorUtils by not running ConfigBuilder during initialization. PLAT-16882
* Adds endpoint to list backup directories for selected storage config. PLAT-16900
* Adds prechecks-only functionality for Kubernetes upgrades and edits. PLAT-17019
* Adds pull secrets and node selector rules to customer creation jobs. PLAT-17026
* Hides the support bundle size estimation API from documentation. PLAT-17050
* Switches AWSUtil from parallel streams to regular streams to avoid thread exhaustion. PLAT-17102
* Enables dump entity collection for TLS-enabled universes in tablet reports. PLAT-17128
* Updates the YNP log collection path in the support bundle. PLAT-17129
* Enhances data persistence by copying PG restore dump files to `/opt/yugabyte/yugaware/data` in Kubernetes environments. PLAT-17138
* Fixes cert-manager certificate names and SAN entries for MCS. PLAT-17142,GH-163
* Reverts erroneous method changes to fix Azure Private DNS in universe creation/deletion. PLAT-17152
* Adds support for new statuses in `GetReplicationStatus` RPC, enhancing xCluster replication monitoring. PLAT-17230
* Ensures correct permissions on /run/user with a new precheck. PLAT-17246
* Resolves the date conversion bug in the get JWT endpoint. PLAT-17261
* Switches the support bundle size estimation API from GET to POST. PLAT-17365
* Reduces wait times between pod rolling restarts and skips prechecks on task reruns for operators. PLAT-17412,PLAT-17413
* Ensures PYTHON_EXECUTABLE is set for ntpd service checks in clock-skew configuration. PLAT-17524
* Ensures `yba-ctl clean` succeeds even with incorrect configurations. PLAT-17547
* Ensures HTTP requests redirect to HTTPS when collecting dump entities in TLS-enabled k8s environments. PLAT-17587
* Ensures provider remains stable after platform restarts during updates. PLAT-17113,PLAT-17657
* Corrects RBS metric calculation and provides updated metrics in YBA graphs. PLAT-17792
* Enables default service account to access opentelemetry-collector. PLAT-17884

</details>
