---
title: What's new in the YugabyteDB Anywhere v2024.1 STS release series
headerTitle: What's new in the YugabyteDB Anywhere v2024.1 STS release series
linkTitle: v2024.1 series (STS)
description: Enhancements, changes, and resolved issues in the YugabyteDB Anywhere v2024.1 STS release series.
menu:
  stable_releases:
    identifier: yba-v2024.1
    parent: yba-releases
    weight: 1040
type: docs
---

What follows are the release notes for all releases in the **YugabyteDB Anywhere** (YBA) v2024.1 series. Content will be added as new notable features and changes are available in the patch releases of the YBA v2024.1 series.

For an RSS feed of all release series, point your feed reader to the [RSS feed for releases](../index.xml).

{{<warning title="Replicated end of life">}}
The 2024.1 release series is not available for installation using Replicated.

YugabyteDB Anywhere ended support for Replicated installation at the end of 2024.

If you have a Replicated installation, you must migrate from Replicated to YBA Installer before upgrading YBA to v2024.1. See [Migrate from Replicated](/v2.20/yugabyte-platform/install-yugabyte-platform/migrate-replicated/).
{{</warning>}}

{{<warning title="Changes to supported operating systems">}}
YugabyteDB 2024.1.0.0 and newer releases do not support v7 Linux versions (CentOS7, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7, Oracle Enterprise Linux 7.x), Amazon Linux 2, and Ubuntu 18. If you're currently using one of these Linux versions, upgrade to a supported OS version before installing YugabyteDB v2024.1.0. Refer to [Operating system support](/v2024.1/reference/configuration/operating-systems/) for the complete list of supported operating systems.
{{</warning>}}

## v2024.1.6.1 - July 23, 2025 {#v2024.1.6.1}

**Build:** `2024.1.6.1-b2`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.6.1/yugabytedb-2024.1.6.1-b2-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.6.1/yugabytedb-anywhere-2024.1.6.1-b2-third-party-licenses.html)

### Download

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.6.1/yba_installer_full-2024.1.6.1-b2-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

This is a YugabyteDB-only release, with no changes to YugabyteDB Anywhere.

## v2024.1.6.0 - April 25, 2025 {#v2024.1.6.0}

**Build:** `2024.1.6.0-b53`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.6.0/yugabytedb-2024.1.6.0-b53-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.6.0/yugabytedb-anywhere-2024.1.6.0-b53-third-party-licenses.html)

### Download

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.6.0/yba_installer_full-2024.1.6.0-b53-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

### Change log

<details>
  <summary>View the detailed changelog</summary>

### Bug fixes

* Ensures K8s always displays TServer and Master configurations, irrespective of `use_k8s_custom_resources` flag. PLAT-16577
* Enhances database health checks and process management for better stability and performance. PLAT-16895,PLAT-16197,PLAT-15742,PLAT-14999
* Enables clearer metrics and alerts for backup deletions. PLAT-17251
* Allows restoring a universe on the same universe without renaming keyspaces. PLAT-16553
* Upgrades Prometheus in YBA installer to version 3.2.1, enhancing security. PLAT-16872
* Upgrades Prometheus in helm charts to version 3.2.1, enhancing security. PLAT-16872
* Upgrades PostgreSQL to version 14.17 to address critical security vulnerabilities. PLAT-16873
* Upgrades key dependencies for enhanced security against critical vulnerabilities. PLAT-16873,PLAT-16876,PLAT-16874
* Upgrades azcopy to version 10.28.0 to enhance security and performance. PLAT-16893
* Upgrades address security vulnerabilities in Netty, Json-smart, and Mina-core, ensuring increased safety against potential attacks. PLAT-16894
* Prevents YBA crash loop caused by invalid OIDC configuration settings. PLAT-16905
* Upgrades Golang crypto to 0.17+ to enhance security. PLAT-13844
* Fixes disk IOPS and throughput reset issue during universe edits. PLAT-16661,PLAT-16724
* Fixes Helm error to successfully apply multiple `nodeSelector` values in overrides. PLAT-16727
* Facilitates easier creation of future RPC tasks by standardizing their setup. PLAT-15566,PLAT-16886
* Adds a refresh button to the slow queries UI for easier data updates. PLAT-16917
* Fixes configuration display and saving issues for migrated universes from 2.20 to 2024.2. PLAT-16918
* Enhances PerfAdvisor by ignoring new fields and supporting custom temp directories. PLAT-17020,PLAT-14028
* Fixes deadlock issue in backups by using sequential streams instead of parallel streams. PLAT-17063
* Upgrades Single Sign-On libraries to enhance security and compatibility. PLAT-15932
* Resolves the date conversion bug in the get JWT endpoint. PLAT-17261

</details>

## v2024.1.5.0 - February 18, 2025 {#v2024.1.5.0}

**Build:** `2024.1.5.0-b26`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.5.0/yugabytedb-2024.1.5.0-b26-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.5.0/yugabytedb-anywhere-2024.1.5.0-b26-third-party-licenses.html)

### Download

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.5.0/yba_installer_full-2024.1.5.0-b26-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

### Change log

<details>
  <summary>View the detailed changelog</summary>

### Bug fixes

* Enhances node expression logic in alerts to ensure accuracy and visibility of affected nodes. PLAT-16346
* Handles Azure images without plan information to avoid errors. PLAT-16404
* Resolves node reservation issues for clusters with dedicated masters and mixed instance types. PLAT-16486,PLAT-16522
* Corrects label errors in `rpc_latency_sum` and `rpc_latency_count` metrics. PLAT-16544
* Ensures collect_metrics_wrapper.sh aligns with node-exporter's metrics path. PLAT-16581
* Upgrades spring-security-core to 5.8.16 to address {{<cve "CVE-2024-38821">}}. PLAT-16648
* Ensures all CDC replication slots display correctly in the UI, even if associated namespaces are deleting. PLAT-16420
* Enhances error handling in `yba-ctl` to prevent infinite loops and crashes from unhandled directory creation errors. PLAT-16467
* Enhances `yba-ctl` efficiency by skipping needless state file updates when no changes occur. PLAT-16641

</details>

## v2024.1.4.0 - January 9, 2025 {#v2024.1.4.0}

**Build:** `2024.1.4.0-b108`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.4.0/yugabytedb-2024.1.4.0-b108-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.4.0/yugabytedb-anywhere-2024.1.4.0-b108-third-party-licenses.html)

### Download

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.4.0/yba_installer_full-2024.1.4.0-b108-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

### New features

* **New automatic on-premises provisioning**

    We've automated and simplified the previously manual or otherwise cumbersome process for preparing nodes for use in on-premises providers. System admins now download and run a single, simplified provisioning script directly on the VMs. The script not only provisions the node but also creates the on-premises infrastructure provider and adds the node to the infrastructure provider's free pool. After the process is completed, your nodes are ready for deployment in universes. With this new provisioning method, dozens of steps are reduced to just a few, the provisioning process won't change from release to release, and security concerns about providing SSH and/or sudo access to VMs are eliminated.

    For more information, refer to [Automatically provision on-premises nodes](/v2024.1/yugabyte-platform/prepare/server-nodes-software/software-on-prem/).

    Note: Support for [legacy node provisioning](/v2024.1/yugabyte-platform/prepare/server-nodes-software/software-on-prem-legacy/) will be dropped in v2025.2 (available late 2025). Before upgrading to v2025.2, be sure to update your node provisioning workflows to support automatic provisioning.

### Change log

<details>
  <summary>View the detailed changelog</summary>

### Improvements

* Allows adding an extra image pull secret to the yugaware statefulset for using multiple private registries. PLAT-13465
* Allows adding an extra imagePullSecret to the StatefulSet in Kubernetes-based YBA 2.20.x installations. PLAT-13465
* Enables the addition of an extra imagePullSecret to the StatefulSet in Kubernetes-based installations. PLAT-13465
* Allows the addition of extra volumes in other containers excluding Yugaware in Kubernetes-based YBA 2.20.x installations. PLAT-13466
* Ensures successful `pexvenv` generation by testing and marking `ybops` import. PLAT-15112
* Enables configuring the federation scrape interval for systems with many tables and nodes. PLAT-15474
* Adjusts default scrape timeout setting for Prometheus Jobs to avoid metrics calculation problems. PLAT-15625
* Allows direct configuration changes and restarts if TLS certificates expire, skipping unnecessary upgrades. PLAT-16176
* Speeds up sensitive flag parsing at YBA startup by using parallel processing. PLAT-15965
* Adds system roles for the seeded customer on the 2024.1 release. PLAT-15747

### Bug fixes

* Disables excessive logs related to `Explicitly set HTTP header 'Transfer-Encoding:chunked` for a quieter logging experience. PLAT-11189
* Allows Prometheus log file to write logs, enhancing clarity and avoiding confusion in the status output. PLAT-11305
* Allows successful restores when the source universe UUID is null. PLAT-12663
* Ensures access key updates in the Redux store immediately reflect in the universe form dropdown options. PLAT-13436
* Ensures node agent installer does not overwrite PATH values in automatic provisioning. PLAT-14332
* Reduces false DB node restart alerts by ignoring minor time updates in NTP syncs (up to 10 seconds). PLAT-14867
* Fixes Hashicorp vault's KMS configuration to retain custom key names on edits and displays the key name under KMS configuration Show Details area. PLAT-14968,PLAT-14966
* Fixes incorrect unit use in "Average YSQL operations latency" alert. PLAT-15407,PLAT-15404
* Updates TLS cipher suite list for Prometheus to enhance security. PLAT-15448
* Handles IPv6 loopback addresses in platform backup scripts. PLAT-15499
* Ensures proper escaping of strings in JSON templates and adds logging, fixing issues in webhook template placeholders. PLAT-15607
* Changes GCP pricing URL to a reliable internal one and ignores errors during queries. PLAT-15655
* Replaces multi-statement queries with single statements to prevent crashes and adds re-checks to avoid false positives in health checks. PLAT-15735,PLAT-15726
* Prevents null pointer errors when adding `Name` instance tags to universes. PLAT-9827
* Adds alerts for YCQL microsecond precision operations and enhances remote bootstrap alerts with percentage thresholds. PLAT-16134,PLAT-16253
* Fixes schema version initialization by skipping missing values and ensuring migrations run correctly. PLAT-15733
* Now enables IMDSv2 by default on UI and backend to enhance EC2 instance security. PLAT-14030
* Upgrades Platform's PostgreSQL version from 14.9 to 14.12. PLAT-14670
* Displays continents instead of country borders on YBA UI maps to maintain neutrality. PLAT-15639
* Stops downloading sha1 during release creation, as only sha256 values are expected. PLAT-15791
* Prevents node health checks from failing due to unrelated full disks in Kubernetes. PLAT-16049
* Supports parsing OpenSSH private keys to prevent failures. PLAT-16144
* Ensures YBA Installer correctly updates migration tracking without overcounting schemas. PLAT-16179
* Removes NGINX from Yugaware charts in branch 2024.1. PLAT-10837
* Ensures backup filenames use UTC timestamps for consistency. PLAT-14086
* Restores visibility of Persistent Volume Stats metrics data on the K8 universe. PLAT-15181
* Adds `useLdapSsl` flag for LDAP universe sync to support SSL connectivity. PLAT-15197
* Enables successful installation/upgrade of YBA on K8s with TLS through Jenkins. PLAT-15219
* Prevents sensitive information leaks in YBA logs by modifying flag values in Java and Python layers. PLAT-15307
* Enables resolution of POD_IP for MCS cases with newly introduced flags. PLAT-15344
* Upgrades PostgreSQL to version 14.13 in YBA helm charts, addressing vulnerabilities. PLAT-15352
* Ensures compatibility with older Kubernetes versions by handling missing `AvailableReplicas` in stateful sets. PLAT-15483
* Fixes volume management during master pod relocation across AZs to prevent usage of stale volumes. PLAT-15483
* Ensures `polkit` package is installed on AlmaLinux 9 nodes to enable linger. PLAT-15698
* Standardizes flag groups across all 2024.1 releases for consistency. PLAT-15798
* Upgrades Java dependencies to enhance security and patch vulnerabilities. PLAT-15837
* Enables YBA installer to use PostgreSQL built with CentOS 7, ensuring compatibility. PLAT-15907
* Allows service control commands regardless of the installation state. PLAT-15922
* Ensures YBA Installer symlinking checks and handles pre-existing links to prevent errors. PLAT-15943
* Fixes the Create Support Bundle button to navigate correctly. PLAT-15986
* Adds a step to set encryption keys during non-rolling upgrades on k8s. PLAT-16067
* Fixes hanging of rolling restart on k8s universe at 6%. PLAT-14793
* Filters out incorrect Azure pricing entries for accurate cost comparison. PLAT-15554,PLAT-16353
* Collect metrics from nodes joining or leaving the cluster during edit tasks. PLAT-15312
* Ensures the build process always uses the latest PostgreSQL version. PLAT-15565
* Allows retrieval of shasum file for URL downloads and adds SHA256 to downloaded releases, aiding in artifact validation. PLAT-15581,PLAT-15580
* Corrects backup and restore issues with custom Prometheus ports in `yba-ctl`. PLAT-15731
* Sets correct permissions on data directories during YBA installations. PLAT-16115

</details>

## v2024.1.3.1 - November 20, 2024 {#v2024.1.3.1}

**Build:** `2024.1.3.1-b8`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.3.1/yugabytedb-2024.1.3.1-b8-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.3.1/yugabytedb-anywhere-2024.1.3.1-b8-third-party-licenses.html)

### Download

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.3.1/yba_installer_full-2024.1.3.1-b8-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

This is a YugabyteDB-only release, with no changes to YugabyteDB Anywhere.

## v2024.1.3.0 - October 8, 2024 {#v2024.1.3.0}

**Build:** `2024.1.3.0-b105`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.3.0/yugabytedb-2024.1.3.0-b105-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.3.0/yugabytedb-anywhere-2024.1.3.0-b105-third-party-licenses.html)

### Download

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.3.0/yba_installer_full-2024.1.3.0-b105-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

### New feature

* [Improved OIDC-based Identity Provider authentication](/v2024.1/yugabyte-platform/security/authentication/oidc-authentication-aad/). When using an OIDC-based IdP to authenticate database access, changes by the IdP to the JWK (the key used to encrypt Java Web Tokens) are now automatically detected and handled properly. {{<tags/feature/ea idea="1658">}}

### Change log

<details>
  <summary>View the detailed changelog</summary>

### Improvements

* Removes the alert for client certificate expiry and ensures it won't be added to new deployments. PLAT-13316,PLAT-13413
* Allows 10 retries for IAM credentials fetch during backup to recover from transient network issues, enhanced with improved logging for failure scenarios. PLAT-13910
* Ensures safe replicated migration by checking if the install root is a subdirectory of the replicated storage path and only cleaning up known directories, preventing accidental data loss. PLAT-14912
* Enables more air gap checks in Ansible install steps to prevent failure due to inaccessible public repositories. PLAT-14331

### Bug fixes

* Allows scripts like zip_purge_logs or clean_cores to work in ubuntu cronjobs by adding default of whoami output. PLAT-12610
* Redacts `ysql_hba_conf_csv` value from logs to mask LDAP bind password. PLAT-13707
* Ensures the master process is halted before master data folders are cleared, preventing unexpected master states. PLAT-14095
* Corrects argument parsing failure in disk_io_failure_detection_py3.py script when values contain `=`. PLAT-14435
* Enables `yb_platform_backup.sh` to handle version checks better on custom storage path containers. PLAT-14705
* Restores swamper targets in YBA even if exclude_prometheus is in backup for consistent universe metrics. PLAT-14743
* Ensures SAS token is masked in the backup configuration response and yb_backup logs for enhanced security. PLAT-14788
* Adds a migration for existing customers to synchronize system roles during the 2024.1 upgrade. PLAT-15254
* Updates the YBA node agent TLS certificates to use stronger and more secure ciphers. PLAT-15306
* Enables retrieving userName from attribute lists if not present in the distinguished name (DN) on Ldap_db_sync API. PLAT-14882
* Upgrades the Python requests library and urllib3 library to the latest versions eliminating high and medium vulnerabilities. PLAT-11243
* Upgrades Grpc library to handle known vulnerabilities and ensures compatibility with latest Python and Java versions. PLAT-13936
* Reverts previously added @JsonProperty annotations to restore original swagger definitions in APIs. PLAT-14524
* Elevates the visibility of node-agent silent parameters and refines the error messaging for more user-friendly interactions. PLAT-14700,PLAT-14976
* Changes YBA callhome URL to new diagnostics endpoint and assures only non-sensitive, unique diagnostics data is sent. PLAT-15205
* Introduces a password policy to disallow back-tick in database passwords, preventing potential code injection. PLAT-10119
* Upgrades spring-security-core to version 5.8.11, fixing a high-severity security vulnerability. PLAT-13828
* Now allows better handling of service restarts by removing bad start limit values from yb_bind and otel-collector systemd units. PLAT-14779
* Fixes resize node retries, preventing failure during `Resizing` state and enhancing action performance. PLAT-14822,PLAT-14858
* Allows enabling or disabling DDL atomicity check using a feature flag, set to on by default, for improved error inspection during health checks. PLAT-15011
* Replaces the `$` sign in the API token with a safer character to prevent bash command disruptions. PLAT-15027
* Enables successful installation/upgrade of YBA on K8s with TLS through Jenkins. PLAT-15219
* Ensures the `update_lb_config` task correctly performs its work rather than clearing out prematurely. PLAT-15349
* Updates RBAC values for the new releases API and makes the upload API external. PLAT-14756
* Fixes hanging of rolling restart on k8s universe at 6%. PLAT-14793
* Ensures "Assign Public IP" field in Azure remains enabled but unchecked by default. PLAT-14871
* Corrects UI validation for the hba_conf flag during OIDC setup, preventing errors during flag edits. PLAT-15167
* Updates client and server versions to 2.1.0.1-b4 to avoid deadlock situations in CloudStoreAggregateTaskInfo. PLAT-14906
* Prevents null pointer exception (NPE) when updating the status of backup/restore tasks in k8s operator. PLAT-15282

</details>

## v2024.1.2.0 - September 3, 2024 {#v2024.1.2.0}

**Build:** `2024.1.2.0-b77`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.2.0/yugabytedb-2024.1.2.0-b77-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.2.0/yugabytedb-anywhere-2024.1.2.0-b77-third-party-licenses.html)

### Download

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.2.0/yba_installer_full-2024.1.2.0-b77-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

### New features

* [YSQL Audit Logs](/v2024.1/yugabyte-platform/alerts-monitoring/universe-logging/). Support for producing and exporting audit logs of PostgreSQL statements (which is often required for compliance with government, financial, or ISO certifications) to a log aggregator. This is based on the pgaudit extension.

* [Simplified UI for enabling Enhanced PostgreSQL Compatibility Mode](/v2024.1/yugabyte-platform/create-deployments/create-universe-multi-zone/#advanced-configuration). Added an option to toggle Enhanced PostgreSQL Compatibility during universe creation and editing.

* [Kubernetes readiness probe](/v2024.1/yugabyte-platform/create-deployments/create-universe-multi-zone-kubernetes/#helm-overrides). Added readiness probes for TServer and Master pods in YugabyteDB, supporting custom or default configurations, thereby enhancing stability by ensuring YSQL/YCQL and YB-Master pods are ready before traffic is routed. {{<tags/feature/ea>}}

* [View CA certificate details](/v2024.1/yugabyte-platform/security/enable-encryption-in-transit/add-certificate-ca/#view-the-certificate-details). After adding a CA-signed certificate for Encryption in Transit, you can now view all the details entered during its creation for review and verification.

### Change log

<details>
  <summary>View the detailed changelog</summary>

### Improvements

* Introduces a health check to alert when runtime certification for node-to-node communication is nearing expiry, necessitating a restart roll, and advises on certificate rotation if on-disk certifications are due to expire within 30 days. PLAT-13865
* Revisions will now alert users on expiration of actual TLS certificates served by the Master and TServer processes. PLAT-13865
* Replaces CentOS 7 repo URLs which are now invalid due to its EOL, ensuring continued CentOS 7 universe creation. PLAT-14546
* Enables explicit removal of pexlock after usage to avoid interference when provisioning on-prem nodes manually. PLAT-14161

### Bug fixes

* Allows node health checks to handle cases where the node name field is not mandatory for on-premises nodes. PLAT-11188
* Allows YBA Installer upgrades to check disk space utilization using state file instead of .installed marker. PLAT-14188,PLAT-14190
* Allows backing up, avoiding repetitive full backup tasks and updating incremental backup time only after passing all validation checks. PLAT-14497
* Incorporates a DDL atomicity check into the health check script, ensuring timely detection of DDL corruption issues. PLAT-14696
* Upgrades azcopy version, resolving known high and critical vulnerabilities. PLAT-11235
* Updates Pekko version to fix the TLSActor infinite loop issue resulting in high CPU usage. PLAT-14524
* Corrects the failure of Azure Provider validation due to unexpected mandatory fields. PLAT-14530
* Fixed the missing XmlElement dependency problem which was causing errors during Datadog validation. PLAT-14536
* Repairs build failure in CentOS 7 pex/yugabundle builder Docker image. PLAT-14543
* Ensures upgraded master nodes aren't mistakenly labeled as "inactive" during a software upgrade. PLAT-14153,PLAT-14562
* Fixes user interface issues concerning the releases UX design, ensuring consistency across various modal and panel displays. PLAT-14607
* Upgrades Postgres version from 14.9 to 14.12 and includes backporting to 18.x, 20.x, 21.x, and 2024.x. PLAT-14670
* Reverts change in JSON field name to avoid failing all preflight checks with node-agent. PLAT-14860
* Enables preview flags support in YBA with an added validation to ensure appropriate preview flag name setting. PLAT-13438
* Upgrades to reactor-netty-http v1.0.39, 1.1.13 and netty-codec-http v4.1.108.Final increase database security. PLAT-13834
* Upgrades the Python requests library to version 2.31.0 addressing the {{<cve "CVE-2023-32681">}} vulnerability. PLAT-13843
* Allows customization of the YBA Installer timeout duration to avoid process failure due to long startups. PLAT-14443
* Enables setting of Prometheus auth without activating HTTPS for better authorization management. PLAT-14478
* Enhances YBA Installer migrations to skip certain versions during backporting which can be applied later on upgrades. PLAT-14511
* Allows fetching of static flags metadata for version 2.16+ from DB package when editing flags via UI. PLAT-14533
* Stops deletion of key pair from cloud if `skipKeyPairValidate` is turned on, rectifying `edit Provider` test failures. PLAT-14624
* Upgrades Prometheus to the latest version, v2.53.1, in the chart. PLAT-14671
* Allows better handling of service restarts by removing bad start limit values from yb_bind and otel-collector systemd units. PLAT-14779
* Adds `Region name` option and ensures regions are searched within the provider, fixing the issue of missing region metadata when adding provisioned nodes via Node Agent. PLAT-14790
* Makes API authentication faster by identifying users using new `userUUID$apiToken`, reducing call time. PLAT-14850
* Replaces the `$` sign in the API token with a safer character to prevent bash command disruptions. PLAT-15027
* Updates task_uuid as a key label for proper in-memory updates, enhancing task analysis capabilities. PLAT-14017
* Enhances yb.allow_db_version_more_than_yba_version for better YBA/DB version checks. PLAT-14800
* Shows only unique cloud provider codes on the Universe region map, eliminating any duplicates. PLAT-13138
* Updates the YBC client and server version to 2.1.0.1-b1 incorporating a fix for the catalog version mechanism. PLAT-14529
* Safeguards API tokens by no longer storing them in plaintext, returning a refreshed API token with each getSessionInfo request. PLAT-14672
* The GET /session_info API no longer sends the apiToken in the response, preventing the inadvertent breakage of client operations. PLAT-14710
* Corrects the runtime configuration GET key endpoint that broke for object keys. PLAT-14829
* Upgrades YBC client and server version to 2.1.0.1-b4, eliminating a deadlock in CloudStoreAggregateTaskInfo. PLAT-14911
* Pass the correct sshUser during otel collector. PLAT-14823

</details>

## v2024.1.1.0 - July 31, 2024 {#v2024.1.1.0}

**Build:** `2024.1.1.0-b137`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.1.0/yugabytedb-2024.1.1.0-b137-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.1.0/yugabytedb-anywhere-2024.1.1.0-b137-third-party-licenses.html)

### Download

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.1.0/yba_installer_full-2024.1.1.0-b137-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

### Highlights

**CDC Observability** {{<tags/feature/ea idea="709">}}

YugabyteDB Anywhere supports monitoring the status of replication slots when using [PostgreSQL Logical Replication Protocol](/v2024.1/additional-features/change-data-capture/using-logical-replication/) for Change Data Capture (CDC).

For more information, refer to [CDC observability](/v2024.1/yugabyte-platform/alerts-monitoring/cdc-observability/). <!-- IDEA-709 -->

### New features

* [Provider validation](/v2024.1/yugabyte-platform/configure-yugabyte-platform/aws/#create-a-provider). When creating public cloud providers (for AWS, Azure, GCP) and Kubernetes providers, YugabyteDB Anywhere now performs validation checks on some user-inputted fields, reducing downstream errors and speeding the configuration process. <!-- IDEA-354 -->
* [Support for Exporting Metrics to a Separate, External Prometheus](/v2024.1/yugabyte-platform/alerts-monitoring/prometheus-custom/). YugabyteDB Anywhere supports export of universe time-series metrics to an external Prometheus instance. The documentation shows how to do this for both VM-based and Kubernetes-based universes.

<details>
  <summary>View the detailed changelog</summary>

### Improvements

* Changes the default permission to `600` for the backup manifest file to accommodate immutable NAS devices. PLAT-13578
* Adds a toggle in the UI to suppress health check notifications during maintenance windows. PLAT-13856
* Allows Ansible tasks to run seamlessly even with very long host names by using hash for Ansible/SSH control path. PLAT-13938
* Allows setting up of YugabyteDB in AWS Singapore Government's GCC Plus environment by extending AZ name limit from 25 to 100 characters. PLAT-13212
* Introduces a new feature, `tablet guardrail mechanism`, that triggers a warning when the ratio of live tablet peers to the supportable tablet peers is more than 0.9, and a severe alert when it's more than 1.0. Available from 2024.1 on. PLAT-13520
* Turns off "assign public IP" option in Azure create universe by default. PLAT-13948

### Bug fixes

* Enables usage of underscores in GCS bucket names during GCP Backup configuration. PLAT-13266
* Enables consistent generation of new incremental backup times in the event of clock skewness. PLAT-13375
* Allows users to filter out resolved alert notifications via WebHook channel configuration. PLAT-13506
* Stops health check alerts during an active maintenance window by introducing a new parameter, `SuppressHealthCheckNotificationsConfig`, to the `MaintenanceWindow` model class and its APIs. PLAT-13518
* Allows deletion of expired, aborted, or failed backups, removes redundant backups when a schedule is deleted, retries backup deletion before marking it as `Failed To Delete`, and queues ongoing deletions for later when YBA restarts. PLAT-13750
* Lets users rotate node-to-node certificates alone without client-to-node encryption enabled. PLAT-13806
* Unsnoozes all universe level health check notifications to encourage use of the maintenance window function. PLAT-13928
* Corrects the checksum mismatch in the V342 migration to ensure successful upgrades from 2.14 to later branches. PLAT-13977
* Automatically re-fetches access tokens before expiring for continuous user sessions when `offline_access` scope is set. PLAT-14042,PLAT-11246
* Allows runtime configuration get API to return the correct inherited value, not just the parent scope value. PLAT-14090
* Conceals DB user's password to prevent exposure in the application log during the upgrade procedure. PLAT-14286
* Adjusts yml task to retain the last old release during the release GC process. PLAT-14368
* Corrects the calculation of affected nodes in the certificate alerts message. PLAT-14385
* Reduces security risks by storing hashed API tokens instead of actual tokens in the users table. PLAT-8028
* Allows backing up, avoiding repetitive full backup tasks and updating incremental backup time only after passing all validation checks. PLAT-14497
* Fixes the issue of tests failing at create universe on Itests Alma8 AMI due to expired GPG keys. PLAT-14136
* Eliminates file descriptor leaks enhancing database stability. PLAT-13665
* Removes the misuse of defaultImageBundle in universe when custom AMI is specified using YBA's machineImage. PLAT-13800
* Allows for updated machineImage passing from nodeDetails in disk operations, preventing edit universe tasks failure due to missing AMIs in AWS clusters. PLAT-13808
* Upgrades PostgreSQL version to the latest 42.3.x addressing critical vulnerabilities. PLAT-13824
* Redirects stderr logs in yb_backup.py to prevent kubectl warn logs from disrupting remote command executions. PLAT-14012
* Allows error-free query for releases with artifacts of a specific deployment type by excluding artifacts without a linked release. PLAT-14057
* Ensures Edit Kubernetes Universe tasks only re-run after validating previous task parameters. PLAT-14203
* Allows the collect_metrics.timer and bind_check.service to operate independently, avoiding system hang-ups due to cyclic dependency issues. PLAT-14293
* Corrects the failure of Azure Provider validation due to unexpected mandatory fields. PLAT-14530
* Repairs build failure in CentOS 7 pex/yugabundle builder Docker image. PLAT-14543
* Corrects the failure of Azure Provider validation due to unexpected mandatory fields. PLAT-14530
* Fixes software upgrade process to ensure master nodes are correctly categorized as `inactive` or `active`. PLAT-14561,PLAT-14153
* Adjusts missing backport in version 2024.1.1 to correct discrepancy in default core file component value label from bytes to GB. PLAT-14593
* Upgrades go etcd and cyphar dependencies in yba-installer, enhancing security by fixing vulnerabilities. PLAT-12335
* Upgrades mina-core package to a secure version 2.2.3 and paramiko to a non-vulnerable version 3.4.0. PLAT-12336
* Eliminates duplicate `exported_instance` label from Prometheus targets of DB exported metrics. PLAT-12808
* Changes `localProvider` key from `task` to `input` for its availability during sbt tasks. PLAT-13367
* Updates AWS metadata to include new regions. PLAT-13623
* Removes internal flags related to providers now enabled by default. PLAT-13743
* Lets you store node metrics in the yb_home directory instead of the /tmp directory. PLAT-13755
* Hides autoflags from the display when listing flags in the user interface. PLAT-13794
* Upgrades python cryptography to 42.0.4 and setuptools to 65.5.1, enhancing security. PLAT-13836,PLAT-13835
* Ensures CPU architecture selection is enabled for all providers, not just AWS, improving DB Versions API usage. PLAT-13852
* Alters snooze alert behavior to also suppress universe health check alerts during maintenance windows. PLAT-13857
* Fixes an issue that caused data from newer backups to be wrongly restored during the restoration of older backups. PLAT-13905
* Allows normal workflows like systemd upgrade to function even when AMI is deleted from the cloud console. PLAT-13971
* Resolves the issue of universe creation failure due to incorrect Image Bundle UUID by using the specified ec2-user. PLAT-14004
* Nullifies possibility of Null Pointer Exception when using old storage configuration based proxy without username. PLAT-14143
* Allows default use of M-series instance types on AWS. PLAT-14196
* Prevents removal of overrides during volume resizing in Kubernetes. PLAT-14198
* Changes permissions to allow traverse through `yb_home` directory, facilitating the collection of custom metrics. PLAT-14216
* Ensures keyspace is not left empty during restore API requests, preventing restoration issues. PLAT-14221
* Adds ConnectOnly role to LDAP group table constraint for better access control. PLAT-14230
* Enables setting of sshUser/Port from the overrides for backward compatibility, fixing Provider Edit to successfully update image Bundle. PLAT-14244
* Allows handling of large output in remote commands to prevent hanging. PLAT-14342
* Fixes the `current lag` stat in xCluster to be table & stream specific, not influenced by other universes. PLAT-14425
* Enhances YBA Installer migrations to skip certain versions during backporting which can be applied later on upgrades. PLAT-14511
* Fixes issue where clicking preview clears data and doesn't display correct information when setting up ysql_ident or ysql_hba multiline flags. PLAT-14515
* Allows customization of the YBA Installer timeout duration to avoid process failure due to long startups. PLAT-14443
* Allows processing of all local releases during an import without failing due to local file issues. PLAT-14532
* Allows fetching of static flags metadata for version 2.16+ from DB package when editing flags via UI. PLAT-14533
* Allows YBA to call `need_bootstrap` for older universes without the `indexed_table_id`, preventing errors. PLAT-14540
* Removes SystemdUpgrade from IN_TRANSIT list to address failures on -gcp-rf3 on master build. PLAT-13770
* Refines empty list component styling and deactivates the action button on Linux version catalog when no versions are present for consistency. PLAT-13776,PLAT-13807
* Allows increasing TServer volume size in edit universe mode for K8 and enables resize of master volumes. PLAT-13920
* Allows display of total CPU usage graph in YBA metrics pages alongside user and system CPU usage. PLAT-14025
* Introduces `follower_lag_ms` metric to the dashboard for easier identification of lagging masters and struggling TServers. PLAT-14254
* Adds validation to disallow the non-restart upgrade option during rollback. PLAT-14390
* Eliminates deprecated `vnetName/securityGroupId` fields from the region object during provider editing. PLAT-14802
* Reduces local Provider's flakiness by using dedicated temporary directories and separate NFS backup directory. PLAT-13252
* Allows safe extraction of DB files in a multi-thread environment by synchronizing conflicting buffer reads. PLAT-14160
* Resolves an issue in yb_backup.py where the `stderr` keyword argument was incorrectly passed. PLAT-14208
* Facilitates handling multiple comma-separated hostnames in YBA installer, enhancing template files, status commands, and reconfiguration wait times. PLAT-13096
* Increases YBC client and server version to 2.1.0.1-b1, optimizing catalog version mechanism. PLAT-14575
* Adjusts missing backport in version 2024.1.1 to correct discrepancy in default core file component value label from bytes to GB. PLAT-14593
* Fixes user interface issues concerning the releases UX design, ensuring consistency across various modal and panel displays. PLAT-14607
* Updates the log file names for YB Controller logs and adds missing symlink `yb-controller-server.{INFO|WARN|ERROR}` to enhance troubleshooting. PLAT-14609,PLAT-14594
* Allows preserving the uploaded YBDB builds by relocating the directory, solving the issue of directory deletion after container restarts. PLAT-14655
* Upgrades YBC client and server version to 2.1.0.1-b3 for better compatibility with both Alma 8.9 and centOS 7 universes. PLAT-14722
* Ensures nodes no longer get stuck in "VM image upgrade" state after upgrading the Linux version. PLAT-14731

</details>

## v2024.1.0.0 - June 4, 2024 {#v2024.1.0.0}

**Build:** `2024.1.0.0-b129`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.0.0/yugabytedb-2024.1.0.0-b129-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.0.0/yugabytedb-anywhere-2024.1.0.0-b129-third-party-licenses.html)

### Download

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.0.0/yba_installer_full-2024.1.0.0-b129-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

### Highlights

**Enhanced Postgres Compatibility Mode** {{<tags/feature/ea>}}

We're pleased to announce the early access of the new Enhanced Postgres Compatibility Mode in the 2024.1.0.0 release. This mode enables you to take advantage of many new improvements in both PostgreSQL compatibility and performance parity, making it even easier to lift and shift your applications from PostgreSQL to YugabyteDB. When this mode is turned on, YugabyteDB uses the [Read-Committed](/v2024.1/architecture/transactions/read-committed/) isolation mode, the [Wait-on-Conflict](/v2024.1/architecture/transactions/concurrency-control/#wait-on-conflict) concurrency mode for predictable P99 latencies, and the new Cost Based Optimizer {{<tags/feature/ea>}} that takes advantage of the distributed storage layer architecture and includes query pushdowns, LSM indexes, and [batched nested loop joins](/v2024.1/architecture/query-layer/join-strategies/#batched-nested-loop-join-bnl) to offer PostgreSQL-like performance.

You can enable the compatibility mode by setting the following flags on a universe:

```sh
yb_enable_read_committed_isolation=true
ysql_enable_read_request_caching=true
"ysql_pg_conf_csv": "yb_enable_base_scans_cost_model=true,"
                      "yb_bnl_batch_size=1024,"
                      "yb_fetch_row_limit=0,"
                      "yb_fetch_size_limit=1MB,"
                      "yb_use_hash_splitting_by_default=false"
```

Note: When enabling the cost models, ensure that packed row for colocated tables is enabled by setting the `--ysql_enable_packed_row_for_colocated_table` flag to true.

**New YugabyteDB Kubernetes Operator** {{<tags/feature/tp idea="831">}}

The new [YugabyteDB Kubernetes Operator](/v2024.1/yugabyte-platform/anywhere-automation/yb-kubernetes-operator/) is a powerful tool designed to automate the deployment, scaling, and management of YugabyteDB clusters in Kubernetes environments. It streamlines database operations, reducing manual effort for developers and operators.

**YugabyteDB Anywhere (YBA) CLI** {{<tags/feature/tp idea="1879">}}

[YBA CLI](/v2024.1/yugabyte-platform/anywhere-automation/anywhere-cli/) is a brand-new open-source tool written in GoLang that's used to interact with YBA using shell commands. With minimal configuration, you can start running commands from the command line, providing functionality equivalent to that offered by the browser-based YBA interface and YBA REST APIs.

### New features

* [Kubernetes Resource Specification](/v2024.1/yugabyte-platform/create-deployments/create-universe-multi-zone-kubernetes/#instance-configuration). You can configure CPU and memory needs for YB-TServer and YB-Master pods natively, instead of using the instance types API. {{<tags/feature/ea>}}

* [Replace node](/v2024.1/yugabyte-platform/manage-deployments/remove-nodes/#replace-a-live-or-unreachable-node). With this new node action, you can directly replace a database node in a universe with a new one to handle problematic nodes.

* [Rollback after database upgrade](/v2024.1/yugabyte-platform/manage-deployments/upgrade-software-install/#roll-back-an-upgrade). Ability to roll back an upgrade to the pre-upgrade release. (The release from which the database was upgraded). You can roll back a database upgrade _only_ to the pre-upgrade release.

* [Database registration simplification](/v2024.1/yugabyte-platform/manage-deployments/ybdb-releases/). Simplification of process for registering database versions (and their binaries) with YBA. The UX has been dramatically simplified. {{<tags/feature/ea>}}

* Force update of EIT certs. If EIT certs expire, customers can now "force update" the replacement of certs with new ones, removing the need to call Technical Support. {{<tags/feature/ea>}}

* [Support for OIDC groups in YugabyteDB Anywhere](/v2024.1/yugabyte-platform/administer-yugabyte-platform/oidc-authentication/#use-oidc-groups-with-yugabytedb-anywhere-roles). In support of role-based access control (RBAC), ability to assign YugabyteDB Anywhere roles to groups from an OIDC-based Identity Provider. {{<tags/feature/ea>}}

* [Decoupling](../../yba-releases/#compatibility-with-yugabytedb). YBA can now be upgraded to a version without requiring its database universe(s) to be upgraded. Versioning is now independent. This is enabled by features including, a published compatibility matrix and database registration simplification.

* [YBA HA enhancements](/v2024.1/yugabyte-platform/administer-yugabyte-platform/high-availability/). Simplified user experience for active/passive YBA deployments.

### Change log

<details>
  <summary>View the detailed changelog</summary>

### Improvements

* Changes the clock skew alert threshold from 500ms to 250ms, enabling detection of clock skew issues before TServer starts crashing, giving users more reaction time. PLAT-13249
* Now includes previously missed migration settings and properly reloads system units during restart. PLAT-13330,PLAT-13331,PLAT-13340
* Introduces an adjustable 1-minute delay to AutoFlags promotion before undertaking any other action. PLAT-13139
* Fixes the failure of admin user DDL due to concurrent DDLs across all cloud providers. PLAT-13221
* Modifies the password reset URL to a new URL on the platform. PLAT-13510
* Alerts now raise 30 days prior to certificate expiry for better visibility, reducing the risk of missed expiration. PLAT-13348
* Displays clear optional tags and tooltips for Azure provider's `Network Resource Group` and `Network Subscription ID` fields for better understanding when to fill them. PLAT-12546
* Adds `ikeep` to the XFS mount options to mitigate possible key duplication in the block cache. PLAT-13192

### Bug fixes

* Bypasses clock sync check on a node if `chronyc` is not installed. PLAT-13137
* Enables the retrieval of api_token from the HA follower, supporting existing automation functions. PLAT-13274,PLAT-13267
* Adds missing cloud regions in YBA's metadata, keeping it in sync with available regions for EKS/GKS/AKS Kubernetes providers. PLAT-13374
* Modifies node metrics file creation to explicitly set permissions, ensuring accessibility despite custom system umasks. PLAT-13378
* Fixes LDAP validation to correctly identify the first instance of `ldap` using regex with whitespace characters. This eliminates previous false validations. PLAT-13575
* Disables weak `C` grade ciphers for key exchange to prevent security threats. Adjusts cipher suite list for Prometheus, allowing modification during installation/upgrade to disable certain ciphers. Ensures only `A` grade ciphers with key size greater than 2048 bits are used, enhancing security against potential attacks. PLAT-9590
* Allows users to filter out resolved alert notifications via WebHook channel configuration. PLAT-13506
* Corrects the checksum mismatch in the V342 migration to ensure successful upgrades from 2.14 to later branches. PLAT-13977
* Prevents universe chain upgrade failure from 2.0 to 2.18 and 2.20 by ensuring the clock-script doesn't run during yb-process start command if it's not present or executable. PLAT-13444
* Prevents `Edit Universe` modal from wrongly displaying master placement as `Place Masters on the same nodes as T-Servers` for a dedicated universe, providing accurate universe creation details. PLAT-13445
* Enables handling of release artifacts that come with sha1 or md5 checksums after release migrations. PLAT-13716
* Deprecates the change_password API due to lack of current password confirmation and introduces a new reset_password API that ensures increased account security by identifying the user through the Auth/API token only. PLAT-10472
* Enables better handling of flag upgrade failure in Dual NIC case, rectifying issues with communication using secondary IPs. PLAT-13223
* Allows for consistent loading of the placement modal in the create universe form regardless of the selected provider. PLAT-13294
* Tunes GC generation sizes and fixes WSClient memory leak, also disables process metrics collector to prevent growing memory allocation over time. PLAT-13619
* Adjusts tab display in the UI to prevent hiding due to addition of xCluster Disaster Recovery and CDC Replication Slots tabs. PLAT-13678
* Restores initialization of the local instance's last backup time during HA sync for accurate updates. PLAT-13708
* Fixes inconsistency in auto-generated YBA bundles, enabling correct default configuration when YBA version is bumped for AMI. PLAT-13796
* Removes the misuse of defaultImageBundle in universe when custom AMI is specified using YBA's machineImage. PLAT-13800
* Allows error-free query for releases with artifacts of a specific deployment type by excluding artifacts without a linked release. PLAT-14057
* Enables direct file copying when creating a tarball for seamless third-party packages incorporation. PLAT-12564
* Allows raising universe level alerts when the YBA Node Agent is down for over a minute. PLAT-12835
* Allows starting a new master in stop or remove node with AZ UUID or region name for uniqueness. PLAT-12886
* Shifts the `useIMDSv2` field from AWS cloudinfo to the ImageBundle details for better provider creation payload configuration. PLAT-12967
* Corrects the NTP Clock Sync health check failure on Amazon Linux 2 CIS hardened image. PLAT-13000
* Enables preflight check validation for image bundles during provider creation/editing on AWS, preventing creation with missing AMI in corresponding region. PLAT-13111
* Resolves rare memory pressure issue causing `bad_alloc` exception in RunOp queue and clears `tablets_to_ip` map before retry to prevent unwarranted uploads. Increases YBC client and server version. PLAT-13157
* Allows editing the number of read replicas in K8S from both the backend and UI without error. PLAT-13163
* Allows Kubernetes to refresh certificates using YBA Universe metadata's `rootCA` rather than taskParams, enhancing data backup integrity during a task failure. Resolves a `under replicated` error in node-to-node root certificate rotation, maintaining stability. PLAT-13172
* Increases the YBC client and server version to 2.1.0.0-b8, solves the issue with deletion of backups on certain NFS mount points. PLAT-13197
* Adds a database version check to prevent software upgrade failures on xCluster universe. PLAT-13204
* Allows recognition of custom alert names for replication lag by using the `template` field instead of the `name` field on the YBA UI, increasing alert configuration flexibility. PLAT-13211
* Allows Python to access seobject library via `policycoreutils-python-utils` on Alma9 for SSH port registration. PLAT-13276
* Allows fetching the updated provider object from the database thereby ensuring correct SSH port configuration during bundle setup, preventing generation of bundles with wrong ports. PLAT-13325
* Allows sort by version, date, and release state, and changes "copy file path" string to "copy file name". PLAT-13350,PLAT-13362
* Adjusts migration names to successfully upgrade from `2024.1.0.0-b32` to `2024.1.0.0-b35` avoiding previous errors. PLAT-13379
* Relocates the IMDSv2 toggle to the image bundle details on AWS provider creation page, improving customization per image bundle. PLAT-13429,PLAT-13333
* Adds a tooltip in the UI to explain the requirement of OIDC provider metadata. This offers guidance for configuring YBA in an air-gapped mode. PLAT-13446
* Supports the inclusion of `unknownField` in the `userIntent` from subsequent configure calls. PLAT-13462
* Changes made to fall back to YugabyteDB's default AMI for YugabyteDB managed bundles if the AMI is not available in a particular region. For custom bundles, there's no fallback mechanism and it will fail early in situations where the respective AMI is missing. Dependency on region to ybImage removed. PLAT-13500
* Adjusts Universe create and upgrade UI workflows to use the new ybdb_releases API, recommending suitable DB versions. PLAT-13435,PLAT-13519
* Fixes UI crash tied to running DeleteNode after the last placement update task failure. PLAT-13546
* Fixes the JS error causing unresponsiveness when clicking on the `In-Use Universes` tab in the releases page. PLAT-13549
* Simplifies AWS/GCP/AZU provider settings by eliminating the `useTimeSync` toggle when `setUpChrony` is already enabled. Adds `enable_imdsv2_support` runtime flag to AWS provider form and allows toggling of IMDSv2 in YBAManged Imagebundle. PLAT-13551,PLAT-13536
* Disables kamon status page module to tackle security concerns. PLAT-13563
* Ensures the `Upgrade Available` link only appears when upgrades are genuinely present and makes the CDC link clickable. PLAT-13677,PLAT-13675
* Allows manual backups on HA standby nodes without interfering with the node's later promotion to primary. PLAT-13683
* Resolves Jenkins build errors by using an older version of a dependency causing issues. PLAT-13690
* Allows rerun of GFlagsUpgrade task without the AreNodesSafeToTakeDown precheck, making task retries successful. PLAT-13703
* Removes NGINX from Yugaware charts branch 2024.1 and updates the version in the upgrade chart to 1.25.2. PLAT-10837
* Allows adding Aarch Linux Version even without any other aarch linux versions in AWS provider. PLAT-13744
* Fixes an issue that caused data from newer backups to be wrongly restored during the restoration of older backups. PLAT-13905
* Resolves the issue of universe creation failure due to incorrect Image Bundle UUID by using the specified ec2-user. PLAT-14004
* Displays error when a selected zone doesn't contain any available nodes during universe configuration. PLAT-12959
* Ensures index tables aren't overlooked when computing bootstrap parameters, preventing failure when adding a table to a database already containing an index. Also removes options to add/remove index tables in transactional xCluster configs. PLAT-13308
* Allows users to pass depreciated fields when editing a provider, ensuring compatibility with providers created using legacy APIs. Fixes issue where providers created on version 2.14 were not editable through UI. PLAT-13394
* Generates necessary artifacts correctly when ReleaseMetadata contains both a local and a Helm chart, and ensures inclusion of local Helm charts on YBA restart. PLAT-13558,PLAT-13561
* Ensures generation of YBA-managed bundles even if `yugaware_property` contains legacy ones, paving the way for successful version comparison and patching. PLAT-13681
* Skips checks for `ListLiveTabletServers` API for YugabyteDB versions earlier than 2.8 to prevent chain upgrade failures. PLAT-13657
* Ensures automatic setting of default image when creating a universe, enhancing user experience. PLAT-13722
* Displays correct SSH port in the connection modal on user interface. PLAT-13754
* Enables proper import/export of universe with newer releases, preventing attach/detach universe failures. PLAT-13761
* Eliminates deprecated `vnetName/securityGroupId` fields from the region object during provider editing. PLAT-14802
* Corrects the retrieval of autoflags from the target universe, ensuring TServer autoflags, not master autoflags, are compared during backup procedures. PLAT-13161
* Marks `useIMDSv2` as deprecated at the provider level and moves it back to AWS cloud info. PLAT-13482
* Updates YBC client and server versions to 2.1.0.0-b9, removing an error condition for multiple master leader addresses and enhancing Java client's resilience to short network outages. PLAT-13529
* Now correctly reads inherited provider level runtime configuration values on Universe Form, enhancing geo-partitioning functionality. Fixes a bug with incorrect readings if values were not set at the provider level. PLAT-13606

</details>
