docs/content/stable/yugabyte-platform/create-deployments/create-universe-multi-zone.md, before:

---
title: Create a multi-zone universe using YugabyteDB Anywhere
headerTitle: Create a multi-zone universe
linkTitle: Multi-zone universe
description: Use YugabyteDB Anywhere to create a YugabyteDB universe that spans multiple availability zones.
menu:
  stable_yugabyte-platform:
    identifier: create-multi-zone-universe
    parent: create-deployments
    weight: 20
type: docs
---

<ul class="nav nav-tabs-alt nav-tabs-yb">

  <li>
    <a href="../create-universe-multi-zone/" class="nav-link active">
      <i class="fa-solid fa-building" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      Generic</a>
  </li>

  <li>
    <a href="../create-universe-multi-zone-kubernetes/" class="nav-link">
      <i class="fa-regular fa-dharmachakra" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      Kubernetes
    </a>
  </li>

</ul>

YugabyteDB Anywhere allows you to create a universe in one geographic region across multiple availability zones using one of the cloud providers.

For specific scenarios such as creating large numbers of tables, high rates of DDL change, and so on, consider creating a universe with dedicated nodes for YB-Master processes. Refer to [Create a universe with dedicated nodes](../dedicated-master/) for more details.

## Prerequisites

Before you start creating a universe, ensure that you performed steps applicable to the cloud provider of your choice, as described in [Create cloud provider configuration](../../configure-yugabyte-platform/).

## Create a universe

To create a universe:

1. Navigate to **Dashboard** or **Universes**, and click **Create Universe**.

1. Enter the universe details. Refer to [Universe settings](#universe-settings).

1. To add a read replica, click **Configure Read Replica**. Refer to [Create a read replica cluster](../read-replicas/).

1. Click **Create** when you are done and wait for the configuration to complete.

![Create Universe on GCP](/images/yp/create-uni-multi-zone-1-gcp.png)

## Universe settings

### Cloud Configuration

Specify the provider and geolocations for the nodes in the universe:

- Enter a name for the universe.

- Choose the [provider configuration](../../configure-yugabyte-platform/) to use to create the universe.

- Select the regions in which to deploy nodes. The available regions will depend on the provider you selected.

- Specify the master placement for the YB-Master processes. Refer to [Create a universe with dedicated nodes](../dedicated-master/) for more details.

- Enter the number of nodes to deploy in the universe. When you provide the value in the **Nodes** field, the nodes are automatically placed across all the availability zones to guarantee the maximum availability.

- Select the [replication factor](../../../architecture/docdb-replication/replication/#replication-factor) for the universe.

- Configure the availability zones where the nodes will be deployed by clicking **Add Zone**.

- Use the **Preferred** setting to set the [preferred zone or region](../../../explore/multi-region-deployments/synchronous-replication-yba/#preferred-region).

### Instance Configuration

Specify the instance to use for the universe nodes:

- Choose the **Linux version** to be provisioned on the nodes of the universe.

- Select the **Instance Type** to use for the nodes in the universe.

- Specify the number and size of the storage volumes, and the storage type.

### Security Configurations

#### IP Settings

To enable public access to the universe, select the **Assign Public IP** option.

#### Authentication Settings

Enable the YSQL and YCQL endpoints and database authentication.

Enter the password to use for the default database admin superuser (yugabyte for YSQL, and cassandra for YCQL). For more information, refer to [Database authorization](../../security/authorization-platform/).

You can also enable and disable the API endpoints and authentication after deployment. Navigate to your universe, click **Actions**, and choose **Edit YSQL Configuration** or **Edit YCQL Configuration**.

By default, the API endpoints use ports 5433 (YSQL) and 9042 (YCQL). You can [customize these ports](#advanced-configuration), and, after deployment, you can modify the YCQL API and admin UI endpoint ports. To change YCQL ports, navigate to your universe, click **Actions**, choose **Edit YCQL Configuration**, and select the **Override YCQL Default Ports** option.

#### Encryption Settings

Enable encryption in transit to encrypt universe traffic. You can enable the following:

- **Node-to-Node TLS** to encrypt traffic between universe nodes.
- **Client-to-Node TLS** to encrypt traffic between universe nodes and external clients.

    Note that if you want to enable Client-to-Node encryption, you first must enable Node-to-Node encryption.

Encryption requires a certificate. YugabyteDB Anywhere can generate a self-signed certificate automatically, or you can use your own certificate.

To use your own, you must first add it to YugabyteDB Anywhere; refer to [Add certificates](../../security/enable-encryption-in-transit/add-certificate-self/).

To have YugabyteDB Anywhere generate a certificate for the universe, use the default **Root Certificate** setting of **Create New Certificate**. To use a certificate you added or a previously generated certificate, select it from the **Root Certificate** menu.

For more information on using and managing certificates, refer to [Encryption in transit](../../security/enable-encryption-in-transit/).

To encrypt the universe data, select the **Enable encryption at rest** option and select the [KMS configuration](../../security/create-kms-config/aws-kms/) to use for encryption. For more information, refer to [Encryption at rest](../../security/enable-encryption-at-rest/).

### Advanced Configuration

Choose the version of YugabyteDB to install on the nodes. If the version you want to add is not listed, you can add it to YugabyteDB Anywhere. Refer to [Manage YugabyteDB releases](../../manage-deployments/ybdb-releases/).

The access key is the SSH key that is created in the provider. Usually, each provider has its own access key, but if you are reusing keys across providers, they are listed here.

For AWS providers, you can assign an ARN to the nodes in the universe; this allow them to be seamlessly backed up without explicit credentials.

To use cron instead of systemd for managing nodes, you can disable systemd services. This not recommended.

To customize the [ports used for the universe](../../prepare/networking/), select the **Override Deployment Ports** option and enter the custom port numbers for the services you want to change. Any value from `1024` to `65535` is valid, as long as it doesn't conflict with anything else running on nodes to be provisioned.

### G-Flags

Optionally, add configuration flags for your YB-Master and YB-TServer nodes. You can also set flags after universe creation. Refer to [Edit configuration flags](../../manage-deployments/edit-config-flags/).

### User Tags

The instances created on a cloud provider can be assigned special metadata to help manage, bill, or audit the resources. You can define these tags when you create a new universe, as well as modify or delete tags of an existing universe. Refer to [Create and edit instance tags](../../manage-deployments/instance-tags/).

## Examine the universe

After the universe is ready, its **Overview** tab should appear similar to the following illustration:

![Multi-zone universe ready](/images/yp/multi-zone-universe-ready-1-220.png)

The **Universes** view allows you to examine various aspects of the universe:

- **Overview** provides the information on the current YugabyteDB Anywhere version, the number of nodes included in the primary cluster, the cost associated with running the universe, the CPU and disk usage, the geographical location of the nodes, the operations per second and average latency, the number of different types of tables, as well as the health monitor.
- **Tables** provides details about YSQL and YCQL tables included in the universe. Table sizes are calculated across all the nodes in the cluster.
- **Nodes** provide details on nodes included in the universe and allows you to perform actions on a specific node (connect, stop, remove, display live and slow queries, download logs). You can also use **Nodes** to open the cloud provider's instances page. For example, in case of GCP, if you navigate to **Compute Engine > VM Instances** and search for instances that contain the name of your universe in the instances name, you should see a list of instances.
- **Metrics** displays graphs representing information on operations, latency, and other parameters for each type of node and server.
- **Queries** displays details about live and slow queries that you can filter by column and text.
- **xCluster Disaster Recovery** provides information about any [disaster recovery](../../back-up-restore-universes/disaster-recovery/) configured for the universe.
- **xCluster Replication** provides information about any [asynchronous replication](../../manage-deployments/xcluster-replication/) in the universe.
- **Tasks** provides details about the state of tasks running on the universe, as well as the tasks that have run in the past against this universe.
- **Backups** displays information about scheduled backups, if any, and allows you to create, restore, and delete backups.
- **Health** displays the detailed performance status of the nodes and components involved in their operation. **Health** also allows you to pause health check alerts.

Commit message:

[doc] Enhanced PG mode (#22887)
* pg parity

* edits

* edit

* edit

* edit

* edit

* edit

* table

* edits

* review comments

* review comment

* edits

* edit

* example table

* review comment

* review comments

* format

* review comments

* review comments

* add flag

* copy to stable

* format

* add note on YBA flags

* minor correction

* minor edit

* Aeon and YBA

* review comments

* link

* review comments

docs/content/stable/yugabyte-platform/create-deployments/create-universe-multi-zone.md, after:

---
title: Create a multi-zone universe using YugabyteDB Anywhere
headerTitle: Create a multi-zone universe
linkTitle: Multi-zone universe
description: Use YugabyteDB Anywhere to create a YugabyteDB universe that spans multiple availability zones.
menu:
  stable_yugabyte-platform:
    identifier: create-multi-zone-universe
    parent: create-deployments
    weight: 20
type: docs
---

<ul class="nav nav-tabs-alt nav-tabs-yb">

  <li>
    <a href="../create-universe-multi-zone/" class="nav-link active">
      <i class="fa-solid fa-building" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      Generic</a>
  </li>

  <li>
    <a href="../create-universe-multi-zone-kubernetes/" class="nav-link">
      <i class="fa-regular fa-dharmachakra" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      Kubernetes
    </a>
  </li>

</ul>

YugabyteDB Anywhere allows you to create a universe in one geographic region across multiple availability zones using one of the cloud providers.

For specific scenarios such as creating large numbers of tables, high rates of DDL change, and so on, consider creating a universe with dedicated nodes for YB-Master processes. Refer to [Create a universe with dedicated nodes](../dedicated-master/) for more details.

## Prerequisites

Before you start creating a universe, ensure that you performed steps applicable to the cloud provider of your choice, as described in [Create cloud provider configuration](../../configure-yugabyte-platform/).

## Create a universe

To create a universe:

1. Navigate to **Dashboard** or **Universes**, and click **Create Universe**.

1. Enter the universe details. Refer to [Universe settings](#universe-settings).

1. To add a read replica, click **Configure Read Replica**. Refer to [Create a read replica cluster](../read-replicas/).

1. Click **Create** when you are done and wait for the configuration to complete.

![Create Universe on GCP](/images/yp/create-uni-multi-zone-1-gcp.png)

## Universe settings

### Cloud Configuration

Specify the provider and geolocations for the nodes in the universe:

- Enter a name for the universe.

- Choose the [provider configuration](../../configure-yugabyte-platform/) to use to create the universe.

- Select the regions in which to deploy nodes. The available regions will depend on the provider you selected.

- Specify the master placement for the YB-Master processes. Refer to [Create a universe with dedicated nodes](../dedicated-master/) for more details.

- Enter the number of nodes to deploy in the universe. When you provide the value in the **Nodes** field, the nodes are automatically placed across all the availability zones to guarantee the maximum availability.

- Select the [replication factor](../../../architecture/docdb-replication/replication/#replication-factor) for the universe.

- Configure the availability zones where the nodes will be deployed by clicking **Add Zone**.

- Use the **Preferred** setting to set the [preferred zone or region](../../../explore/multi-region-deployments/synchronous-replication-yba/#preferred-region).

### Instance Configuration

Specify the instance to use for the universe nodes:

- Choose the **Linux version** to be provisioned on the nodes of the universe.

- Select the **Instance Type** to use for the nodes in the universe.

- Specify the number and size of the storage volumes, and the storage type.

### Security Configurations

#### IP Settings

To enable public access to the universe, select the **Assign Public IP** option.

#### Authentication Settings

Enable the YSQL and YCQL endpoints and database authentication.

Enter the password to use for the default database admin superuser (yugabyte for YSQL, and cassandra for YCQL). For more information, refer to [Database authorization](../../security/authorization-platform/).

You can also enable and disable the API endpoints and authentication after deployment. Navigate to your universe, click **Actions**, and choose **Edit YSQL Configuration** or **Edit YCQL Configuration**.

By default, the API endpoints use ports 5433 (YSQL) and 9042 (YCQL). You can [customize these ports](#advanced-configuration), and, after deployment, you can modify the YCQL API and admin UI endpoint ports. To change YCQL ports, navigate to your universe, click **Actions**, choose **Edit YCQL Configuration**, and select the **Override YCQL Default Ports** option.

#### Encryption Settings

Enable encryption in transit to encrypt universe traffic. You can enable the following:

- **Node-to-Node TLS** to encrypt traffic between universe nodes.
- **Client-to-Node TLS** to encrypt traffic between universe nodes and external clients.

    Note that if you want to enable Client-to-Node encryption, you first must enable Node-to-Node encryption.

Encryption requires a certificate. YugabyteDB Anywhere can generate a self-signed certificate automatically, or you can use your own certificate.

To use your own, you must first add it to YugabyteDB Anywhere; refer to [Add certificates](../../security/enable-encryption-in-transit/add-certificate-self/).

To have YugabyteDB Anywhere generate a certificate for the universe, use the default **Root Certificate** setting of **Create New Certificate**. To use a certificate you added or a previously generated certificate, select it from the **Root Certificate** menu.

For more information on using and managing certificates, refer to [Encryption in transit](../../security/enable-encryption-in-transit/).

To encrypt the universe data, select the **Enable encryption at rest** option and select the [KMS configuration](../../security/create-kms-config/aws-kms/) to use for encryption. For more information, refer to [Encryption at rest](../../security/enable-encryption-at-rest/).

### Advanced Configuration

Choose the version of YugabyteDB to install on the nodes. If the version you want to add is not listed, you can add it to YugabyteDB Anywhere. Refer to [Manage YugabyteDB releases](../../manage-deployments/ybdb-releases/).

The access key is the SSH key that is created in the provider. Usually, each provider has its own access key, but if you are reusing keys across providers, they are listed here.

For AWS providers, you can assign an ARN to the nodes in the universe; this allow them to be seamlessly backed up without explicit credentials.

If database version is v2024.2 or later, you can enable early access features for PostgreSQL compatibility. For more information, refer to [Enhanced PostgreSQL Compatibility Mode](../../../explore/ysql-language-features/postgresql-compatibility/#enhanced-postgresql-compatibility-mode).

To use cron instead of systemd for managing nodes, you can disable systemd services. This not recommended.

To customize the [ports used for the universe](../../prepare/networking/), select the **Override Deployment Ports** option and enter the custom port numbers for the services you want to change. Any value from `1024` to `65535` is valid, as long as it doesn't conflict with anything else running on nodes to be provisioned.

### G-Flags

Optionally, add configuration flags for your YB-Master and YB-TServer nodes. You can also set flags after universe creation. Refer to [Edit configuration flags](../../manage-deployments/edit-config-flags/).

### User Tags

The instances created on a cloud provider can be assigned special metadata to help manage, bill, or audit the resources. You can define these tags when you create a new universe, as well as modify or delete tags of an existing universe. Refer to [Create and edit instance tags](../../manage-deployments/instance-tags/).

## Examine the universe

After the universe is ready, its **Overview** tab should appear similar to the following illustration:

![Multi-zone universe ready](/images/yp/multi-zone-universe-ready-1-220.png)

The **Universes** view allows you to examine various aspects of the universe:

- **Overview** provides the information on the current YugabyteDB Anywhere version, the number of nodes included in the primary cluster, the cost associated with running the universe, the CPU and disk usage, the geographical location of the nodes, the operations per second and average latency, the number of different types of tables, as well as the health monitor.
- **Tables** provides details about YSQL and YCQL tables included in the universe. Table sizes are calculated across all the nodes in the cluster.
- **Nodes** provide details on nodes included in the universe and allows you to perform actions on a specific node (connect, stop, remove, display live and slow queries, download logs). You can also use **Nodes** to open the cloud provider's instances page. For example, in case of GCP, if you navigate to **Compute Engine > VM Instances** and search for instances that contain the name of your universe in the instances name, you should see a list of instances.
- **Metrics** displays graphs representing information on operations, latency, and other parameters for each type of node and server.
- **Queries** displays details about live and slow queries that you can filter by column and text.
- **xCluster Disaster Recovery** provides information about any [disaster recovery](../../back-up-restore-universes/disaster-recovery/) configured for the universe.
- **xCluster Replication** provides information about any [asynchronous replication](../../manage-deployments/xcluster-replication/) in the universe.
- **Tasks** provides details about the state of tasks running on the universe, as well as the tasks that have run in the past against this universe.
- **Backups** displays information about scheduled backups, if any, and allows you to create, restore, and delete backups.
- **Health** displays the detailed performance status of the nodes and components involved in their operation. **Health** also allows you to pause health check alerts.
