docs/content/stable/yugabyte-platform/create-deployments/create-universe-multi-zone-kubernetes.md, before:

---
title: Create a multi-zone universe using YugabyteDB Anywhere and Kubernetes
headerTitle: Create a multi-zone universe with Kubernetes
linkTitle: Multi-zone universe
description: Use YugabyteDB Anywhere and Kubernetes to create a YugabyteDB universe that spans multiple availability zones.
menu:
  stable_yugabyte-platform:
    identifier: create-multi-zone-universe-kubernetes
    parent: create-deployments
    weight: 20
type: docs
---

<ul class="nav nav-tabs-alt nav-tabs-yb">
  <li>
    <a href="../create-universe-multi-zone/" class="nav-link">
      <i class="fa-solid fa-building" aria-hidden="true"></i>
Generic</a>
  </li>

  <li>
    <a href="../create-universe-multi-zone-kubernetes/" class="nav-link active">
      <i class="fa-regular fa-dharmachakra" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      Kubernetes
    </a>
  </li>

</ul>

YugabyteDB Anywhere allows you to create a universe in one geographic region across multiple availability zones using Kubernetes as a cloud provider.

## Prerequisites

Before you start creating a universe, ensure that you performed steps described in [Configure the Kubernetes cloud provider](/preview/yugabyte-platform/configure-yugabyte-platform/set-up-cloud-provider/kubernetes/). The following illustration shows the **Managed Kubernetes Service configs** list that you should be able to see if you use YugabyteDB Anywhere to navigate to **Configs > Cloud Provider Configuration > Infrastructure > Managed Kubernetes Service**:

![img](/images/yb-platform/kubernetes-config1.png)

Note that the cloud provider example used in this document has a cluster-level admin access.

## Create a universe

If no universes have been created yet, the **Dashboard** does not display any.

To start, click **Create Universe** and complete the first two fields of the **Cloud Configuration** section:

- In the **Name** field, enter the name for the YugabyteDB universe using lowercase characters (for example, yb-k8s).

- Use the **Provider** field to select the appropriate Kubernetes cloud (for example, multilane-k8s-portal-yb). Notice that additional fields appear.

Complete the rest of the **Cloud Configuration** section as follows:

- Use the **Regions** field to select the region. This enables the **Availability Zones** option that allows you to see zones belonging to that region.

- Provide the value in the **Pods** field. This value should be equal to or greater than the replication factor. The default value is 3. When this value is supplied, the pods (also known as nodes) are automatically placed across all the availability zones to guarantee the maximum availability.

- In the **Replication Factor** field, define the replication factor, as per the following illustration:<br>

  ![img](/images/yb-platform/kubernetes-config55.png)

### Configure instance

Complete the **Instance Configuration** section as follows:

- Use the **Instance Type** field to select the CPU and memory combination, as per needs to allocate the YB-TServer nodes. The default is small. You can override this setting when you configure the Kubernetes cloud provider (see [Configuring the region and zones](/preview/yugabyte-platform/configure-yugabyte-platform/set-up-cloud-provider/kubernetes/#configure-region-and-zones)).
- In the **Volume Info** field, specify the number of volumes multiplied by size. The default is 1 x 100GB.
- Use the **Root Certificate** field to select an existing security certificate or create a new one.
- Use the **Enable YSQL** field to specify whether or not to enable the YSQL API endpoint for running PostgreSQL-compatible workloads. This setting is enabled by default.
- Use the **Enable YSQL Auth** field to specify whether or not to enable the YSQL password authentication.
- Use the **Enable YCQL** field to specify whether or not to enable the YCQL API endpoint for running Cassandra-compatible workloads. This setting is enabled by default.
- Use the **Enable YCQL Auth** field to specify whether or not to enable the YCQL password authentication.
- Use the **Enable YEDIS** field to specify whether or not to enable the YEDIS API endpoint for running Redis-compatible workloads. This setting is disabled by default.
- Use the **Enable Node-to-Node TLS** field to specify whether or not to enable encryption-in-transit for communication between the database servers. This setting is enabled by default.
- Use the **Enable Client-to-Node TLS** field to specify whether or not to enable encryption-in-transit for communication between clients and the database servers. This setting is enabled by default.
- Use the **Enable Encryption at Rest** field to specify whether or not to enable encryption for data stored on the tablet servers. This setting is disabled by default.

### Perform advanced configurations

Complete the **Advanced** section as follows:

- In the **DB Version** field, specify the YugabyteDB version. The default is either the same as the YugabyteDB Anywhere version or the latest YugabyteDB version available for YugabyteDB Anywhere.
- Use the **Enable IPV6** field to specify whether or not you want to use IPV6 networking for connections between database servers. This setting is disabled by default.
- Use the **Enable Public Network Access** field to specify whether or not to assign a load balancer or nodeport for connecting to the database endpoints over the internet. This setting is disabled by default.

### Configure G-Flags

Optionally, complete the **G-Flags** section as follows:

- Click **Add Flags > Add to Master** to specify YB-Master servers parameters, one parameter per field.

- Click **Add Flags > Add to T-Server** to specify YB-TServer servers parameters, one parameter per field.

  For details, see the following:

  - [Edit configuration flags](../../manage-deployments/edit-config-flags)

  - [YB-Master configuration flags](../../../reference/configuration/yb-master/#configuration-flags)

  - [YB-TServer configuration flags](../../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#configuration-flags)

### Configure Helm overrides

Optionally, use the **Helm Overrides** section, as follows:

- Click **Add Kubernetes Overrides** to open the **Kubernetes Overrides** dialog shown in the following illustration:

  ![img](/images/yb-platform/kubernetes-config66.png)

- Using the YAML format, which is sensitive to spacing and indentation, specify the universe-level overrides for YB-Master and YB-TServer, as per the following example:

  ```yaml
  master:
    podLabels:
      service-type: 'database'
  ```

- Add availability zone overrides, which only apply to pods that are deployed in that specific availability zone. For example, to define overrides for the availability zone us-west-2a, you would click **Add Availability Zone** and use the text area to insert YAML in the following form:

  ```yaml
  us-west-2a:
    master:
      podLabels:
         service-type: 'database'
  ```

  If you specify conflicting overrides, YugabyteDB Anywhere would use the following order of precedence: universe availability zone-level overrides, universe-level overrides, provider overrides.

- Select **Force Apply** if you want to override any previous overrides.

- Click **Validate & Save**.

  If there are any errors in your overrides definitions, a detailed error message is displayed. You can correct the errors and try to save again. To save your Kubernetes overrides regardless of any validation errors, select **Force Apply**.

The final step is to click **Create** and wait for the YugabyteDB cluster to appear.

The following illustration shows the universe in its pending state:

![img](/images/yb-platform/kubernetes-config10.png)

## Examine the universe and connect to nodes

The universe view consists of several tabs that provide different information about this universe.

The following illustration shows the **Overview** tab of a newly-created universe:

![img](/images/yb-platform/kubernetes-config11.png)

If you have defined Helm overrides for your universe, you can modify them at any time through **Overview** by clicking **Actions > Edit Kubernetes Overrides**.

The following illustration shows the **Nodes** tab that allows you to see a list of nodes with their addresses:

![img](/images/yb-platform/kubernetes-config12.png)

You can create a connection to a node as follows:

- Click **Connect** to access the information about the universe's endpoints to which to connect.

- On a specific node, click **Actions > Connect** to access the `kubectl` commands that you need to copy and use to connect to the node.

## Connect to the universe

For information on how to connect to the universe from the Kubernetes cluster, as well as remotely, see [Connect YugabyteDB clusters](../../../deploy/kubernetes/clients/#connect-tls-secured-yugabytedb-cluster-deployed-by-helm-charts).

Commit message:

added gke service account content

docs/content/stable/yugabyte-platform/create-deployments/create-universe-multi-zone-kubernetes.md, after:

---
title: Create a multi-zone universe using YugabyteDB Anywhere and Kubernetes
headerTitle: Create a multi-zone universe with Kubernetes
linkTitle: Multi-zone universe
description: Use YugabyteDB Anywhere and Kubernetes to create a YugabyteDB universe that spans multiple availability zones.
menu:
  stable_yugabyte-platform:
    identifier: create-multi-zone-universe-kubernetes
    parent: create-deployments
    weight: 20
type: docs
---

<ul class="nav nav-tabs-alt nav-tabs-yb">
  <li>
    <a href="../create-universe-multi-zone/" class="nav-link">
      <i class="fa-solid fa-building" aria-hidden="true"></i>
Generic</a>
  </li>

  <li>
    <a href="../create-universe-multi-zone-kubernetes/" class="nav-link active">
      <i class="fa-regular fa-dharmachakra" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      Kubernetes
    </a>
  </li>

</ul>

YugabyteDB Anywhere allows you to create a universe in one geographic region across multiple availability zones using Kubernetes as a cloud provider.

## Prerequisites

Before you start creating a universe, ensure that you performed steps described in [Configure the Kubernetes cloud provider](/preview/yugabyte-platform/configure-yugabyte-platform/set-up-cloud-provider/kubernetes/). The following illustration shows the **Managed Kubernetes Service configs** list that you should be able to see if you use YugabyteDB Anywhere to navigate to **Configs > Cloud Provider Configuration > Infrastructure > Managed Kubernetes Service**:

![img](/images/yb-platform/kubernetes-config1.png)

Note that the cloud provider example used in this document has a cluster-level admin access.

## Create a universe

If no universes have been created yet, the **Dashboard** does not display any.

To start, click **Create Universe** and complete the first two fields of the **Cloud Configuration** section:

- In the **Name** field, enter the name for the YugabyteDB universe using lowercase characters (for example, yb-k8s).

- Use the **Provider** field to select the appropriate Kubernetes cloud (for example, multilane-k8s-portal-yb). Notice that additional fields appear.

Complete the rest of the **Cloud Configuration** section as follows:

- Use the **Regions** field to select the region. This enables the **Availability Zones** option that allows you to see zones belonging to that region.

- Provide the value in the **Pods** field. This value should be equal to or greater than the replication factor. The default value is 3. When this value is supplied, the pods (also known as nodes) are automatically placed across all the availability zones to guarantee the maximum availability.

- In the **Replication Factor** field, define the replication factor, as per the following illustration:<br>

  ![img](/images/yb-platform/kubernetes-config55.png)

### Configure instance

Complete the **Instance Configuration** section as follows:

- Use the **Instance Type** field to select the CPU and memory combination, as per needs to allocate the YB-TServer nodes. The default is small. You can override this setting when you configure the Kubernetes cloud provider (see [Configuring the region and zones](/preview/yugabyte-platform/configure-yugabyte-platform/set-up-cloud-provider/kubernetes/#configure-region-and-zones)).
- In the **Volume Info** field, specify the number of volumes multiplied by size. The default is 1 x 100GB.
- Use the **Root Certificate** field to select an existing security certificate or create a new one.
- Use the **Enable YSQL** field to specify whether or not to enable the YSQL API endpoint for running PostgreSQL-compatible workloads. This setting is enabled by default.
- Use the **Enable YSQL Auth** field to specify whether or not to enable the YSQL password authentication.
- Use the **Enable YCQL** field to specify whether or not to enable the YCQL API endpoint for running Cassandra-compatible workloads. This setting is enabled by default.
- Use the **Enable YCQL Auth** field to specify whether or not to enable the YCQL password authentication.
- Use the **Enable YEDIS** field to specify whether or not to enable the YEDIS API endpoint for running Redis-compatible workloads. This setting is disabled by default.
- Use the **Enable Node-to-Node TLS** field to specify whether or not to enable encryption-in-transit for communication between the database servers. This setting is enabled by default.
- Use the **Enable Client-to-Node TLS** field to specify whether or not to enable encryption-in-transit for communication between clients and the database servers. This setting is enabled by default.
- Use the **Enable Encryption at Rest** field to specify whether or not to enable encryption for data stored on the tablet servers. This setting is disabled by default.

### Perform advanced configurations

Complete the **Advanced** section as follows:

- In the **DB Version** field, specify the YugabyteDB version. The default is either the same as the YugabyteDB Anywhere version or the latest YugabyteDB version available for YugabyteDB Anywhere.
- Use the **Enable IPV6** field to specify whether or not you want to use IPV6 networking for connections between database servers. This setting is disabled by default.
- Use the **Enable Public Network Access** field to specify whether or not to assign a load balancer or nodeport for connecting to the database endpoints over the internet. This setting is disabled by default.

### Configure G-Flags

Optionally, complete the **G-Flags** section as follows:

- Click **Add Flags > Add to Master** to specify YB-Master servers parameters, one parameter per field.

- Click **Add Flags > Add to T-Server** to specify YB-TServer servers parameters, one parameter per field.

  For details, see the following:

  - [Edit configuration flags](../../manage-deployments/edit-config-flags)

  - [YB-Master configuration flags](../../../reference/configuration/yb-master/#configuration-flags)

  - [YB-TServer configuration flags](../../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#configuration-flags)

### Configure Helm overrides

Optionally, use the **Helm Overrides** section, as follows:

- Click **Add Kubernetes Overrides** to open the **Kubernetes Overrides** dialog shown in the following illustration:

  ![img](/images/yb-platform/kubernetes-config66.png)

- Using the YAML format, which is sensitive to spacing and indentation, specify the universe-level overrides for YB-Master and YB-TServer, as per the following example:

  ```yaml
  master:
    podLabels:
      service-type: 'database'
  ```

- Add availability zone overrides, which only apply to pods that are deployed in that specific availability zone. For example, to define overrides for the availability zone us-west-2a, you would click **Add Availability Zone** and use the text area to insert YAML in the following form:

  ```yaml
  us-west-2a:
    master:
      podLabels:
         service-type: 'database'
  ```

  If you specify conflicting overrides, YugabyteDB Anywhere would use the following order of precedence: universe availability zone-level overrides, universe-level overrides, provider overrides.

  If you want to enable [GKE service account based IAM](../../back-up-restore-universes/configure-backup-storage/#gke-service-account-based-iam-gcp-iam) for backup and restore at the universe level, add the following overrides:

  ```yaml
  serviceAccount:<KSA_NAME>
  nodeSelector:
   iam.gke.io/gke-metadata-server-enabled: "true"
  ```

  {{<note title="Note">}}
  It is required to provide Namespace names for each zone/region during [provider creation](../../configure-yugabyte-platform/set-up-cloud-provider/kubernetes/) itself, otherwise YBA assigns pods to a new Namespace which would not contain the annotated service account. The namespace name can be the same across all zones/regions.
  {{</note>}}

  To enable the GKE service account service at the provider level, refer to [Overrides](../../configure-yugabyte-platform/set-up-cloud-provider/kubernetes/#overrides) to enable GKE service account based IAM.

- Select **Force Apply** if you want to override any previous overrides.

- Click **Validate & Save**.

  If there are any errors in your overrides definitions, a detailed error message is displayed. You can correct the errors and try to save again. To save your Kubernetes overrides regardless of any validation errors, select **Force Apply**.

The final step is to click **Create** and wait for the YugabyteDB cluster to appear.

The following illustration shows the universe in its pending state:

![img](/images/yb-platform/kubernetes-config10.png)

## Examine the universe and connect to nodes

The universe view consists of several tabs that provide different information about this universe.

The following illustration shows the **Overview** tab of a newly-created universe:

![img](/images/yb-platform/kubernetes-config11.png)

If you have defined Helm overrides for your universe, you can modify them at any time through **Overview** by clicking **Actions > Edit Kubernetes Overrides**.

The following illustration shows the **Nodes** tab that allows you to see a list of nodes with their addresses:

![img](/images/yb-platform/kubernetes-config12.png)

You can create a connection to a node as follows:

- Click **Connect** to access the information about the universe's endpoints to which to connect.

- On a specific node, click **Actions > Connect** to access the `kubectl` commands that you need to copy and use to connect to the node.

## Connect to the universe

For information on how to connect to the universe from the Kubernetes cluster, as well as remotely, see [Connect YugabyteDB clusters](../../../deploy/kubernetes/clients/#connect-tls-secured-yugabytedb-cluster-deployed-by-helm-charts).
