---
title: What's new in the YugabyteDB Anywhere v2.23 release series
headerTitle: What's new in the YugabyteDB Anywhere v2.23 release series
linkTitle: v2.23 series (Preview)
description: Enhancements, changes, and resolved issues in the YugaybteDB Anywhere v2.23 preview release series.
menu:
  preview_releases:
    identifier: yba-v2.23
    parent: yba-releases
    weight: 1055
type: docs
---

What follows are the release notes for all releases in the **YugabyteDB Anywhere** (YBA) v2.23 series. Content will be added as new notable features and changes are available in the patch releases of the YBA v2.23  series.

For an RSS feed of all release series, point your feed reader to the [RSS feed for releases](../../index.xml).

## v2.23.0.0 - September 4, 2024 {#v2.23.0.0}

**Build:** `2.23.0.0-b707`

### Download

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.23.0.0/yba_installer_full-2.23.0.0-b707-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

### Change log

<details>
  <summary>View the detailed changelog</summary>

### Improvements

* Allows periodic copying of core dumps to a designated volume by a background thread, enhancing dump management strategy. PLAT-12633
* Alters the default `yba-ctl createBackup` behavior to skip the restart process, enhancing user experience. PLAT-12912
* Changes the clock skew alert threshold from 500ms to 250ms, enabling detection of clock skew issues before TServer starts crashing, giving users more reaction time. PLAT-13249
* Re-enables api_token endpoint access from HA follower for better automation setups. PLAT-13267
* Adds all missing migration settings and ensures any on-the-fly adjustments to systemd units are recognized. PLAT-13330,PLAT-13331
* Removes the alert for client certificate expiry and ensures it won't be added to new deployments. PLAT-13413,PLAT-13316
* Changes the default permission to `600` for the backup manifest file to accommodate immutable NAS devices. PLAT-13578
* Ensures valid inputs for `smtpPort` and `Server and Port` fields in `Create new alert channel` dialog to prevent errors. PLAT-13702
* Adds a toggle in the UI to suppress health check notifications during maintenance windows. PLAT-13856
* Introduces a health check to alert when runtime certification for node-to-node communication is nearing expiry, necessitating a restart roll, and advises on certificate rotation if on-disk certifications are due to expire within 30 days. PLAT-13865
* Offers certificate expiration alerts based on certificates served by master and tserver processes, not just on-disk ones. PLAT-13865
* Revisions will now alert users on expiration of actual TLS certificates served by the master and tserver processes. PLAT-13865
* Allows Ansible tasks to run seamlessly even with very long host names by using hash for Ansible/SSH control path. PLAT-13938
* Adjusts the disk availability check for upgrades to use the state file instead of the outdated .installed marker file. PLAT-14188
* Introduces an adjustable 1-minute delay to AutoFlags promotion before undertaking any other action. PLAT-13139
* Fixes the failure of admin user DDL due to concurrent DDLs across all cloud providers. PLAT-13221
* Modifies the password reset URL to a new URL on the platform. PLAT-13510
* Enables LDAP login users in YBA to restrict access using `ldapSearchFilter` in the LDAP configuration. PLAT-13209
* Allows setting up of YugabyteDB in AWS Singapore Government's GCC Plus environment by extending AZ name limit from 25 to 100 characters. PLAT-13212
* Alerts now raise 30 days prior to certificate expiry for better visibility, reducing the risk of missed expiration. PLAT-13348
* Introduces a new feature, `tablet guardrail mechanism`, that triggers a warning when the ratio of live tablet peers to the supportable tablet peers is more than 0.9, and a severe alert when it's more than 1.0. Available from 2024.1 onwards. PLAT-13520
* Displays uptime/downtime status of the service in yba-ctl outputs for enhanced visibility. PLAT-13532
* Adds more air gap checks to Ansible installation steps to prevent failures when connecting to public repos. PLAT-14331
* Allows automatic backup and rollback during upgrades, ensuring continued service without any disruption. PLAT-14776
* Displays clear optional tags and tooltips for Azure provider's `Network Resource Group` and `Network Subscription ID` fields for better understanding when to fill them. PLAT-12546
* Ensures secure SSH key validation and updates error format for on-prem providers for better consistency. PLAT-13064
* Adds `ikeep` to the XFS mount options to mitigate possible key duplication in the block cache. PLAT-13192
* Turns off "assign public IP" option in Azure create universe by default. PLAT-13948
* Replaces CentOS 7 repo URLs which are now invalid due to its EOL, ensuring continued CentOS 7 universe creation. PLAT-14546
* Enables explicit removal of pexlock after usage to avoid interference when provisioning on-prem nodes manually. PLAT-14161

### Bug fixes

* Allows node health checks to handle cases where the node name field is not mandatory for on-premises nodes. PLAT-11188
* Allows automatic re-fetching of an expiring access token, ensuring uninterrupted user access if the `offline_access` scope is enabled. PLAT-11246
* Allows YBC upgrades during initial backup and restore operations only. Fixes restore operations failure when the source universe UUID is null. PLAT-12663,PLAT-12644
* Allows proper date display in UI by specifying an exact input format for diverse timezones. PLAT-12721
* Reverts changes in platform UI to correct graph display issue linked to invalid date representation. PLAT-12721
* Allows proper date display in UI by specifying an exact input format for diverse timezones. PLAT-12721
* Ensures yba-ctl stop command stops YBA services gracefully, avoiding `ERRORED` status due to premature exit code. PLAT-12767
* Adds lock timeouts for Ansible tasks to prevent failures when acquiring yum lockfile. PLAT-13029
* Removes `lock_timeout` parameter from apt or package modules, resolving potential conflicts in Ansible 2.9. PLAT-13029
* Bypasses clock sync check on a node if `chronyc` is not installed. PLAT-13137
* Improves openssl command's output formatting for more reliable CN and SAN value retrieval during certification verification. PLAT-13169
* Enables usage of underscores in GCS bucket names during GCP Backup configuration. PLAT-13266
* Adds missing cloud regions in YBA's metadata, keeping it in sync with available regions for EKS/GKS/AKS Kubernetes providers. PLAT-13374
* Enables consistent generation of new incremental backup times in the event of clock skewness. PLAT-13375
* Modifies node metrics file creation to explicitly set permissions, ensuring accessibility despite custom system umasks. PLAT-13378
* Ensures universe unlock and restore progress if YBA UI crashes, reboots, or shuts down to avoid manual cleanup. PLAT-13409,PLAT-12830
* Stops health check alerts during an active maintenance window by introducing a new parameter, `SuppressHealthCheckNotificationsConfig`, to the `MaintenanceWindow` model class and its APIs. PLAT-13518
* Fixes LDAP validation to correctly identify the first instance of `ldap` using regex with whitespace characters. This eliminates previous false validations. PLAT-13575
* Allows deletion of expired, aborted, or failed backups, removes redundant backups when a schedule is deleted, retries backup deletion before marking it as `Failed To Delete`, and queues ongoing deletions for later when YBA restarts. PLAT-13750
* Lets users rotate node-to-node certificates alone without client-to-node encryption enabled. PLAT-13806
* Unsnoozes all universe level health check notifications to encourage use of the maintenance window function. PLAT-13928
* Corrects the checksum mismatch in the V342 migration to ensure successful upgrades from 2.14 to later branches. PLAT-13977
* Corrects timezone discrepancies in backup timestamps in the HA "Make Active" dialog. PLAT-14031
* Allows runtime configuration get API to return the correct inherited value, not just the parent scope value. PLAT-14090
* Stops master process before clearing master data folders to prevent unexpected states. PLAT-14095
* Conceals DB user's password to prevent exposure in the application log during the upgrade procedure. PLAT-14286
* Ensures the node agent installer doesn't overwrite PATH values in non-manual provisioning. PLAT-14332
* Adjusts yml task to retain the last old release during the release GC process. PLAT-14368
* Corrects the calculation of affected nodes in the certificate alerts message. PLAT-14385
* Allows backing up, avoiding repetitive full backup tasks and updating incremental backup time only after passing all validation checks. PLAT-14497
* Allows WaitForPod to overlook runtime exceptions when fetching pod status, preventing rolling restart failures in k8's due to a `Pod not found` error. PLAT-14498
* Incorporates a DDL atomicity check into the health check script, ensuring timely detection of DDL corruption issues. PLAT-14696
* Addresses issues with yb_platform_backup.sh for custom replicated storage paths by correctly assessing version checks, writing to the right directories, and ensuring smooth container restarts after config changes. PLAT-14705
* Displays a warning message to verify the selected image on a standalone VM before initiating the upgrade. PLAT-14749
* Reduces security risks by storing hashed API tokens instead of actual tokens in the users table. PLAT-8028
* Disables weak `C` grade ciphers for key exchange to prevent security threats. Adjusts cipher suite list for Prometheus, allowing modification during installation/upgrade to disable certain ciphers. Ensures only `A` grade ciphers with key size greater than 2048 bits are used, enhancing security against potential attacks. PLAT-9590
* Migrates to stronger TLS cipher suites for HTTPS Prometheus to improve security by preventing weak key exchange vulnerabilities. PLAT-9590
* Prevents universe chain upgrade failure from 2.0 to 2.18 and 2.20 by ensuring the clock-script doesn't run during yb-process start command if it's not present or executable. PLAT-13444
* Prevents `Edit Universe` modal from wrongly displaying master placement as `Place Masters on the same nodes as T-Servers` for a dedicated universe, providing accurate universe creation details. PLAT-13445
* Systemd upgrades now skip Dual-NIC configuration, enhancing availability and reducing setup time. PLAT-13495
* Enables handling of release artifacts that come with sha1 or md5 checksums after release migrations. PLAT-13716
* Resolves a problem with dual-nic script functionality on GCP and Centos that was preventing connections to the public endpoint of single region VPC clusters. PLAT-14209
* Corrects a typographical error in the dual-nic configuration script enhancing external connections to the cluster. PLAT-14370
* Deprecates the change_password API due to lack of current password confirmation and introduces a new reset_password API that ensures increased account security by identifying the user through the Auth/API token only. PLAT-10472
* Upgrades Azcopy to the latest version, addressing prior high and critical vulnerabilities for a safer use. PLAT-11235
* Enables display of differences in instance tags in the confirmation modal box during FULL MOVE and UPDATE operations. PLAT-12085
* Replaces deprecated API to prevent `Create Provider` timeout after 3 hours due to issues in Azure instance types query. PLAT-12558
* Allows retrying of SystemdUpgrade tasks after a failure or aborted attempt. PLAT-13089
* Resolves issue with incorrect delay used in `wait for server task` in Kubernetes, now using delay from config. PLAT-13182
* Enables better handling of Gflag upgrade failure in Dual NIC case, rectifying issues with communication using secondary IPs. PLAT-13223
* Disables checks for ybm temporarily due to issues with dual NIC. PLAT-13223
* Allows for consistent loading of the placement modal in the create universe form regardless of the selected provider. PLAT-13294
* Now, newly added nodes correctly assign master addresses, enhancing dual NIC usage for YBM. PLAT-13463
* Marks pending tasks as failed on YBA restart to prevent indefinite pending state. PLAT-13516
* Tunes GC generation sizes and fixes WSClient memory leak, also disables process metrics collector to prevent growing memory allocation over time. PLAT-13619
* Eliminates file descriptor leaks enhancing database stability. PLAT-13665
* Allows using a Java client for running node actions when node-agent is present, enhancing error reporting, and improving retry mechanisms. PLAT-13673
* Adjusts tab display in the UI to prevent hiding due to addition of xCluster Disaster Recovery and CDC Replication Slots tabs. PLAT-13678
* Eliminates an unnecessary dependency between timer and service files in the metrics collection under systemd. PLAT-13706
* Restores initialization of the local instance's last backup time during HA sync for accurate updates. PLAT-13708
* Fixes inconsistency in auto-generated YBA bundles, enabling correct default configuration when YBA version is bumped for AMI. PLAT-13796
* Removes the misuse of defaultImageBundle in universe when custom AMI is specified using YBA's machineImage. PLAT-13800
* Allows for updated machineImage passing from nodeDetails in disk operations, preventing edit universe tasks failure due to missing AMIs in AWS clusters. PLAT-13808
* Upgrades PostgreSQL version to the latest 42.3.x addressing critical vulnerabilities. PLAT-13824
* Redirects stderr logs in yb_backup.py to prevent kubectl warn logs from disrupting remote command executions. PLAT-14012
* Allows error-free query for releases with artifacts of a specific deployment type by excluding artifacts without a linked release. PLAT-14057
* Corrects ShellResponse in node-agent java-client to return a generic error code rather than 0 on connection errors. PLAT-14131
* Prevents counting upgraded master nodes as "inactive" during a software upgrade, avoiding leadership issues. PLAT-14153
* Ensures Edit Kubernetes Universe tasks only re-run after validating previous task parameters. PLAT-14203
* Fixes issue where node-agent upgrade via java-client gets stuck due to incorrect permission settings. PLAT-14289
* Allows the collect_metrics.timer and bind_check.service to operate independently, avoiding system hang-ups due to cyclic dependency issues. PLAT-14293
* Removes circular dependency between ansible roles and limits node_exporter usage for non-YBM cases. PLAT-14297
* Upgrades PostgreSQL from version 42.5.1 to 42.5.5 to mitigate security vulnerabilities. PLAT-14326
* Resolves a compilation error by properly importing the `Stream` symbol. PLAT-14428
* Updates Pekko version to fix the TLSActor infinite loop issue resulting in high CPU usage. PLAT-14524
* Reverts added @JsonProperty annotations and up-versions pekko to fix TLSActor infinite loop. PLAT-14524
* Allows successful editing of Azure Provider by removing mandatory requirement of Network Resource Group and Network Subscription ID. PLAT-14530
* Fixed the missing XmlElement dependency problem which was causing errors during datadog validation. PLAT-14536
* Corrects log file names for YB-Controller logs and ensures the creation of the `yb-controller-server.{INFO|WARN|ERROR}` symlink. PLAT-14594
* Expand the YBC support bundle component to match log files with or without the process name prefix. PLAT-14609
* Allows preserving the uploaded YBDB builds by relocating the directory, solving the issue of directory deletion after container restarts. PLAT-14655
* Upgrades Postgres version from 14.9 to 14.12 and backports to 18.x, 20.x, 21.x, and 2024.x. PLAT-14670
* Upgrades Postgres version from 14.9 to 14.12 and backports to 18.x, 20.x, 21.x, and 2024.x. PLAT-14670
* Ensures clearer error messages for node-agent installation failure due to existing local certificate files deletion. PLAT-14700
* Fixes an issue where creating a universe fails due to a locale error, observed when transitioning between b659 and b664. PLAT-14814
* Reverts change in JSON field name to avoid failing all preflight checks with node-agent. PLAT-14860
* Enables thread safety for `Yrpc handleCallback` to prevent yb-client from consuming deferred results multiple times. PLAT-10056
* Exposes YBA startup time as a measurable metric for AppInit elapsedTime. PLAT-10807
* Upgrades go etcd and cyphar dependencies in yba-installer, enhancing security by fixing vulnerabilities. PLAT-12335
* Upgrades mina-core package to a secure version 2.2.3 and paramiko to a non-vulnerable version 3.4.0. PLAT-12336
* Changes the HTTP status code for conflicting edit tasks from 503 to CONFLICT to ensure accuracy. PLAT-12557
* Enables direct file copying when creating a tarball for seamless third-party packages incorporation. PLAT-12564
* Prevents the creation of unnecessary Master folders for read replica nodes to avoid version mismatches during software upgrades. PLAT-12806
* Eliminates duplicate `exported_instance` label from Prometheus targets of DB exported metrics. PLAT-12808
* Allows raising universe level alerts when the YBA Node Agent is down for over a minute. PLAT-12835
* Introduces a background task for detecting failed master nodes in live universes, controllable by the `yb.automated_master_failover.enabled` runtime configuration. PLAT-12856
* Enables automatic scheduling of master failover in the event of a failure. PLAT-12857
* Allows using AZ UUID, instead of AZ name, to ensure uniqueness across regions when starting a new master. Also, prevents deletion of nodes in reserved state. PLAT-12886
* Shifts the `useIMDSv2` field from AWS cloudinfo to the ImageBundle details for better provider creation payload configuration. PLAT-12967
* Corrects the NTP Clock Sync health check failure on Amazon Linux 2 CIS hardened image. PLAT-13000
* Solves the occasional issue of no return data during AWS VM creation due to non-updated AWS metadata by implementing retries. PLAT-13049
* Enables successful backup creation of YCQL tables from the tables page by resolving the `Failed to parse BackupRequestParams` error. PLAT-13056
* Enables preflight check validation for image bundles during provider creation/editing on AWS, preventing creation with missing AMI in corresponding region. PLAT-13111
* Resolves rare memory pressure issue causing bad_alloc exception in RunOp queue and clears tablets_to_ip map before retry to prevent unwarranted uploads. Increases YBC client and server version. PLAT-13157
* Allows editing the number of read replicas in K8S from both the backend and UI without error. PLAT-13163
* Allows Kubernetes to refresh certificates using YBA Universe metadata's `rootCA` rather than taskParams, enhancing data backup integrity during a task failure. Resolves a `under replicated` error in node-to-node root certificate rotation, maintaining stability. PLAT-13172
* Adjusts storage of SHA256 value for release artifacts to avoid exceptions. PLAT-13193
* Increases the YBC client and server version to 2.1.0.0-b8, solves the issue with deletion of backups on certain NFS mount points. PLAT-13197
* Adds a database version check to prevent software upgrade failures on xcluster universe. PLAT-13204
* Allows recognition of custom alert names for replication lag by using the `template` field instead of the `name` field on the YBA UI, increasing alert configuration flexibility. PLAT-13211
* Allows TaskExecutor to accommodate error codes by shifting retry info to task info. PLAT-13242
* Refines AnsibleCreateServer cleanup routine to avoid forcing boot disk removal during retry on creation failure. PLAT-13270
* Detects replicated app and avoids permission issues with Prometheus during yba-ctl installation. PLAT-13271
* Allows Python to access seobject library via policycoreutils-python-utils on Alma9 for SSH port registration. PLAT-13276
* Restores logging for Python subtasks marked with [app] that were previously not logged. PLAT-13313
* Allows fetching the updated provider object from the database thereby ensuring correct SSH port configuration during bundle setup, preventing generation of bundles with wrong ports. PLAT-13325
* Allows sort by version, date, and release state, and changes "copy file path" string to "copy file name". PLAT-13362,PLAT-13350
* Changes `localProvider` key from `task` to `input` for its availability during sbt tasks. PLAT-13367
* Allows tasks that install YugabyteDB to use the latest stable version instead of the universe intended version. PLAT-13373
* Introduces a new runtime configuration `cluster_membership.timeout` to retry server tablets check for 1 min before node cleanup. PLAT-13381
* Relocates the IMDSv2 toggle to the image bundle details on AWS provider creation page, improving customization per image bundle. PLAT-13333,PLAT-13429
* Enables preview gFlags support in YBA with an added validation to ensure appropriate preview flag name setting. PLAT-13438
* Adds a tooltip in the UI to explain the requirement of OIDC provider metadata. This offers guidance for configuring YBA in an air-gapped mode. PLAT-13446
* Supports the inclusion of `unknownField` in the `userIntent` from subsequent configure calls. PLAT-13462
* Enables replication role privileges for admin user to create replication slots using the `createRestrictedUser` function in YBA. PLAT-13486
* Changes made to fall back to YugabyteDB's default AMI for YugabyteDB managed bundles if the AMI is not available in a particular region. For custom bundles, there's no fallback mechanism and it will fail early in situations where the respective AMI is missing. Dependency on region to ybImage removed. PLAT-13500
* Allows the universe creation without facing a `NullPointerException` related to `placementInfo`. PLAT-13514
* Adjusts Universe create and upgrade UI workflows to use the new ybdb_releases API, recommending suitable DB versions. PLAT-13519,PLAT-13435
* Allows selection of preferred timezone setting for timestamps in metrics charts. PLAT-13538
* Fixes UI crash tied to running DeleteNode after the last placement update task failure. PLAT-13546
* Fixes the JS error causing unresponsiveness when clicking on the `In-Use Universes` tab in the releases page. PLAT-13549
* Simplifies AWS/GCP/AZU provider settings by eliminating the `useTimeSync` toggle when `setUpChrony` is already enabled. Adds `enable_imdsv2_support` runtime flag to AWS provider form and allows toggling of IMDSv2 in YBAManged Imagebundle. PLAT-13536,PLAT-13551
* Introduces Active Session History (ASH) logic to the Tablet Server (TS) User Interface (UI) to enhance analysis and troubleshooting. PLAT-13557
* Disables kamon status page module to tackle security concerns. PLAT-13563
* Cleans up expired entries in node agent client more actively to enhance performance. PLAT-13581
* Addresses inconsistency in reading static configuration keys ensuring uniform processing. PLAT-13582
* Updates AWS metadata to include new regions. PLAT-13623
* Expands support for modifying universe in the UI, now allowing a volume size increase and placement modification, eliminating the need for `nodesResizeAvailable`. PLAT-13630
* Allows usage of the sshUser configured in the provider when `machineImage` parameter is used during universe creation, reducing failures in custom AMI cloud cases. PLAT-13632
* Allows usage of the sshUser configured in the provider when `machineImage` parameter is used during universe creation, reducing failures in custom AMI cloud cases. PLAT-13632
* Ensures the `Upgrade Available` link only appears when upgrades are genuinely present and makes the CDC link clickable. PLAT-13675,PLAT-13677
* Allows manual backups on HA standby nodes without interfering with the node's later promotion to primary. PLAT-13683
* Resolves Jenkins build errors by using an older version of a dependency causing issues. PLAT-13690
* Allows rerun of GFlagsUpgrade task without the AreNodesSafeToTakeDown precheck, making task retries successful. PLAT-13703
* Corrects fetching of plan info from Azure VM image tags before VM creation, preventing cluster creation failure. PLAT-13712
* Includes total CPU usage graph in YBA metrics pages for a more comprehensive view of CPU utilization. PLAT-13714
* Integrates v2 changes into the UI, generates boilerplate with JavaScript API, transfers to a single top-level folder structure for APIs, hooks, and helper functions, generates API stubs codes using the Orval framework, and modifies the Axios path to /api/v2. Note: utilizes an older version of Orval due to the current build pipeline's limitations. PLAT-13742
* Removes internal flags related to providers now enabled by default. PLAT-13743
* Allows adding Aarch Linux Version even without any other aarch linux versions in AWS provider. PLAT-13744
* Lets you store node metrics in the yb_home directory instead of the /tmp directory. PLAT-13755
* Hides autoflags from the display when listing gflags in the user interface. PLAT-13794
* Upgrades spring-security-core to version 5.8.11, fixing a high-severity security vulnerability. PLAT-13828
* Upgrades the commons-compress version from 1.25.0 to 1.26.0 addressing potential vulnerabilities. PLAT-13829
* Upgrades to reactor-netty-http v1.0.39, 1.1.13 and netty-codec-http v4.1.108.Final increase database security. PLAT-13834
* Upgrades python cryptography to 42.0.4 and setuptools to 65.5.1, enhancing security. PLAT-13835,PLAT-13836
* Upgrades the Python requests library to version 2.31.0 addressing the {{<cve "CVE-2023-32681">}} vulnerability. PLAT-13843
* Upgrades golang crypto to 0.17 to counteract high and medium vulnerabilities. PLAT-13844
* Upgrades golang crypto to version 0.17+ to address security vulnerabilities. PLAT-13844
* Ensures CPU architecture selection is enabled for all providers, not just AWS, improving DB Versions API usage. PLAT-13852
* Alters snooze alert behavior to also suppress universe health check alerts during maintenance windows. PLAT-13857
* Fixes an issue that caused data from newer backups to be wrongly restored during the restoration of older backups. PLAT-13905
* Allows normal workflows like systemd upgrade to function even when AMI is deleted from the cloud console. PLAT-13971
* Resolves the issue of universe creation failure due to incorrect Image Bundle UUID by using the specified ec2-user. PLAT-14004
* Makes sure NodeAgent-based shell process execution respects the `logCmdOutput` parameter, preventing health check run disruptions. PLAT-14048
* Ensures `yb.runtime_conf_ui.tag_filter` accurately reflects BETA and INTERNAL flags in the UI, even without tab switching. PLAT-14098
* Changes the tag of runtime config `oidc_feature_enhancements` from BETA to PUBLIC. PLAT-14140
* Nullifies possibility of Null Pointer Exception when using old storage config based proxy without username. PLAT-14143
* Allows default use of M-series instance types on AWS. PLAT-14196
* Ensures keyspace is not left empty during restore API requests, preventing restoration issues. PLAT-14221
* Adds ConnectOnly role to LDAP group table constraint for better access control. PLAT-14230
* Enables setting of sshUser/Port from the overrides for backward compatibility, fixing Provider Edit to successfully update image Bundle. PLAT-14244
* Ensures Centos7 deployments don't fail when using cron by shifting systemd configuration to the provision phase. PLAT-14275
* Allows ignoring specific subtask failures with markers for further processing, paving the way for enhancements like auto master failover. PLAT-14316
* Allows handling of large output in remote commands to prevent hanging. PLAT-14342
* Splits locale installation for Ubuntu 20 on GCP into three tasks to prevent shell expansion issues. PLAT-14420
* Fixes the `current lag` stat in xCluster to be table & stream specific, not influenced by other universes. PLAT-14425
* Enables successful running of reprovision tasks without marking the universe as error in case of pre-check failures. PLAT-14440
* Allows customization of the yba installer timeout duration to avoid process failure due to long startups. PLAT-14443
* Shifts AWS queries to asynchronous task, preventing potential YugaByte Platform startup delays due to multiple AWS providers. PLAT-14444
* Allows successful dropping of tables from non-db scoped replication without the unwanted nuisance of ILLEGAL_STATE errors. PLAT-14467
* Enables setting of Prometheus auth without activating HTTPS for better authorization management. PLAT-14478
* Enhances yba installer migrations to skip certain versions during backporting which can be applied later on upgrades. PLAT-14511
* Fixes issue where clicking preview clears data and doesn't display correct information when setting up ysql_ident or ysql_hba multiline flags. PLAT-14515
* Allows processing of all local releases during an import without failing due to local file issues. PLAT-14532
* Allows fetching of static flags metadata for version 2.16+ from DB package when editing gflags via UI. PLAT-14533
* Stops deletion of key pair from cloud if `skipKeyPairValidate` is turned on, rectifying `edit Provider` test failures. PLAT-14624
* Allows recalculating disk IOPS when volume size changes in Azure UltraSSD_LRS storage type. PLAT-14654
* Upgrades Prometheus to the latest version, v2.53.1, in the chart. PLAT-14671
* Upgrades YBC client and server version to 2.2.0.1-b3, resolving glibc version incompatibility issues on Alma 8 based YBC builds for CentOS 7 universes. PLAT-14722
* Fixes node state reordering issue occurring post Linux version upgrade in "VM image upgrade" state. PLAT-14731
* Corrects position of universe status loader on dashboard page. PLAT-14737
* Replaces deprecated methods in the node agent for a smoother operation. PLAT-14746
* Ensures correct import for TasklistTable on Platform, fixing the missing Toast import error. PLAT-14757
* Adds `Region name` option and ensures regions are searched within the provider, fixing the issue of missing region metadata when adding provisioned nodes via Node Agent. PLAT-14790
* Eliminates display of empty tooltips when Master or TServer nodes are unreachable. PLAT-14792
* Enhances node resize retries and prevents nodes stuck in the `Resizing` state due to failure. PLAT-14822
* Allows superadmin users to create Disaster Recovery (DR) setups and ensures DR links open in a new tab. PLAT-14861,PLAT-14862
* Introduces feature flag to enable or disable the DDL atomicity check for better control, with subsequent reruns on health checks following previous failed checks. PLAT-15011
* Blocks creation of multiple TLS certificates with the same name for a single customer to prevent confusion. PLAT-7406
* Allows re-attempting node creation in Azure following previous failures, enhancing YBA's reliability. PLAT-11654
* Allows navigation back to the overview page from the universe view by clicking the universe name. PLAT-12592
* Displays error when a selected zone doesn't contain any available nodes during universe configuration. PLAT-12959
* Allows adding architecture to existing release and inserting data test ID for automation. PLAT-13227
* Ensures index tables aren't overlooked when computing bootstrap parameters, preventing failure when adding a table to a database already containing an index. Also removes options to add/remove index tables in transactional xCluster configs. PLAT-13308
* Allows users to pass depreciated fields when editing a provider, ensuring compatibility with providers created using legacy APIs. Fixes issue where providers created on version 2.14 were not editable through UI. PLAT-13394
* Allows users to alter the API path using an environment variable from the app hosting TS UI. PLAT-13539
* Now generates necessary artifacts correctly when ReleaseMetadata contains both a local and a helm chart, and ensures inclusion of local helm charts on YBAd restart. PLAT-13558,PLAT-13561
* Skips checks for `ListLiveTabletServers` API for YugabyteDB versions earlier than 2.8 to prevent chain upgrade failures. PLAT-13657
* Ensures generation of YBA Managed bundles even if `yugaware_property` contains legacy ones, paving the way for successful version comparison and patching. PLAT-13681
* Resolves minor condition check issue that prevented YBA Managed Bundles generation during first OS Patching enablement. PLAT-13681
* Allows YBA to function using the latest TS Framework version. PLAT-13687
* Allows filtering by event operations in OUTLIER mode and upgrades YBA to the latest TS Framework version. PLAT-13687
* Ensures automatic setting of default image when creating a universe, enhancing user experience. PLAT-13722
* Displays correct SSH port in the connection modal on user interface. PLAT-13754
* Enables proper import/export of universe with newer releases, preventing attach/detach universe failures. PLAT-13761
* Removes SystemdUpgrade from IN_TRANSIT list to address failures on -gcp-rf3 on master build. PLAT-13770
* Removes the runtime configuration for the CA trust store as it's enabled by default from version 2.18. PLAT-13798
* Refines empty list component styling and deactivates the action button on linux version catalog when no versions are present for consistency. PLAT-13776,PLAT-13807
* Enables users to create Database Replication with db scoped replication on YBA using the `db_scoped.enabled` runtime flag, though currently, it only supports non-TLS and non-bootstrapping uses. A new table `xcluster_namespace_config` added for tracking dbs/namespaces per xcluster config. PLAT-1386
* Resolves UI issues on release list page, release details panel, add Release Modal, and Edit Release. PLAT-13918
* Allows increasing tserver volume size in edit universe mode for K8 and enables resize of master volumes. PLAT-13920
* Allows clicking on `Node Perform` check even when the node is in a decommissioned state. PLAT-14001
* Enhances performance dashboards by adding task UUID to `ybp_universe_active_task_code` metrics and introducing a hidden API to retrieve specific task information. PLAT-14017
* Updates task_uuid as a key label for proper in-memory updates, enhancing task analysis capabilities. PLAT-14017
* Introduces `follower_lag_ms` metric to the dashboard for easier identification of lagging masters and struggling tservers. PLAT-14254
* Displays last anomaly detection run time on primary dashboard and maintains consistent color coding for outlier nodes on secondary dashboard. PLAT-14305
* Rearranges all UI-driven flags to INTERNAL and eliminates unused YBM runtime conf tag to simplify flag usage. PLAT-14156,PLAT-14323
* Shifts all node agent based flags from BETA to INTERNAL in Provider Conf keys file for better flag classification. PLAT-14324
* Adds validation to disallow the non-restart upgrade option during rollback. PLAT-14390
* Migrates YSQL/YCQL configuration RBAC checks to universe actions level and integrates RBAC for PG Compatibility. PLAT-14668
* Now displays a toast message when customer profile information gets updated. PLAT-14740
* Displays the Premium V2 Storage type as an option for Azure during Create/Edit scenarios based on runtime configs. PLAT-14750
* Reconfigures RBAC actions on Releases API and makes the previously hidden upload API external. PLAT-14756
* Adds a runtime configuration to enable or disable the `Download Metrics as PDF` button in Metrics Page. PLAT-14781
* Enhances yb.allow_db_version_more_than_yba_version for better YBA/DB version checks. PLAT-14800
* Removes image OS check in AMI name for bootstrap scripts, enhancing compatibility with custom images. PLAT-3838
* Stops logging the entire contents of the CA certificate in plaintext during deletion requests. PLAT-11650
* Facilitates handling multiple comma-separated hostnames in YBA installer, enhancing template files, status commands, and reconfiguration wait times. PLAT-13096
* Shows only unique cloud provider codes on the Universe region map, eliminating any duplicates. PLAT-13138
* Updates the URL endpoint for the TS service. PLAT-13154
* Updates URL endpoint for TF service to support server requests over HTTPS. PLAT-13154
* Corrects the retrieval of autoflags from the target universe, ensuring tserver autoflags, not master autoflags, are compared during backup procedures. PLAT-13161
* Marks `useIMDSv2` as deprecated at the provider level and moves it back to AWS cloud info. PLAT-13482
* Updates YBC client and server versions to 2.1.0.0-b9, removing an error condition for multiple master leader addresses and enhancing Java client's resilience to short network outages. PLAT-13529
* Now correctly reads inherited provider level runtime config values on Universe Form, enhancing geo-partitioning functionality. Fixes a bug with incorrect readings if values were not set at the provider level. PLAT-13606
* Changes duplicate metric headings and updates gflag keyword regex for LDAP config in Universe edit flags. PLAT-13697,PLAT-13395
* Uptime now available for master nodes in DEDICATED mode, benefiting any cloud provider based universes and K8 universes. PLAT-13746,PLAT-13679,PLAT-12372
* Allows safe extraction of DB files in a multi-thread environment by synchronizing conflicting buffer reads. PLAT-14160
* Resolves an issue in yb_backup.py where the `stderr` keyword argument was incorrectly passed. PLAT-14208
* Removes unnecessary `fromString` from storageType, previously used by the k8s operator. PLAT-14369
* Corrects spelling errors in the success notification for dropping a table from replication. PLAT-14510
* Safeguards API tokens by no longer storing them in plaintext, returning a refreshed API token with each getSessionInfo request. PLAT-14672
* Allows multiple developers to use the same Kubernetes cluster by adding namespace name to the Helm release name and enabling the ability to override the release name with an environment variable. PLAT-14709
* The GET /session_info API no longer sends the apiToken in the response, preventing the inadvertent breakage of client operations. PLAT-14710
* Updates to `/session_info` API documentation to clarify that `getSessionInfo` will no longer generate `apiToken` with each invocation. PLAT-14710
* Allows using internal load balancer as default while deploying devspace clusters without affecting existing port-forwarding workflow. PLAT-14798
* Corrects the runtime configuration GET key endpoint that broke for object keys. PLAT-14829
* Updates the incorrect YAML path in yba-installer to correctly get the restart seconds value. PLAT-14848

</details>
