---
title: What's new in the YugabyteDB Anywhere v2024.2 LTS release series
headerTitle: What's new in the YugabyteDB Anywhere v2024.2 LTS release series
linkTitle: v2024.2 series (LTS)
description: Enhancements, changes, and resolved issues in the YugaybteDB Anywhere v2024.2 LTS release series.
menu:
  preview_releases:
    identifier: yba-v2024.2
    parent: yba-releases
    weight: 1056
type: docs
---

What follows are the release notes for all releases in the **YugabyteDB Anywhere** (YBA) v2024.2 series. Content will be added as new notable features and changes are available in the patch releases of the YBA v2024.2 series.

For an RSS feed of all release series, point your feed reader to the [RSS feed for releases](../index.xml).

## v2024.2.0.0 - November 27, 2024 {#v2024.2.0.0}

**Build:** `2024.2.0.0-b129`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.2.0.0/yugabytedb-2024.2.0.0-b129-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.2.0.0/yugabytedb-anywhere-2024.2.0.0-b129-third-party-licenses.html)

### Download

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.2.0.0/yba_installer_full-2024.2.0.0-b129-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

### Highlights

### New features

* [xCluster DR](/stable/yugabyte-platform/back-up-restore-universes/disaster-recovery/). {{<tags/feature/ga>}} A turnkey solution for business continuity and disaster recovery, allowing you to recover from an unplanned outage (failover) or to perform a planned switchover. It also includes APIs to setup xCluster replication for a entire database. [Semi-automatic xCluster replication](/preview/deploy/multi-dc/async-replication/async-replication-transactional/) simplifies the management of YSQL transactional xCluster replication by operating at the database level instead of the table level. This reduces the need for IT admin involvement when tables are created or dropped, as xCluster management is only required for adding or removing entire databases from replication. DDL operations can be performed by authorized users or DBAs without needing elevated privileges. Semi-automatic xCluster supports YSQL transactional replication and is ideal for Disaster Recovery (DR) purposes.

* [Master self-healing on unplanned failures](/stable/yugabyte-platform/manage-deployments/remove-nodes/) If a node with Master process fails unexpectedly (reducing health, but not causing service downtime), YBA now auto-heals the universe by starting a Master process on a suitable surviving node (if one exists). {{<tags/feature/ea>}}

* [Faster software upgrades (Flag changes, rolling restarts, and so on)](/stable/yugabyte-platform/manage-deployments/edit-config-flags/#rolling-restart-in-batches). Rolling operations can now be performed on multiple nodes at a time (rather than one at a time), speeding up the operation by 2x, 3x, or more.

* [Database registration simplification](/stable/yugabyte-platform/manage-deployments/ybdb-releases/). Simplification of process for registering database versions (and their binaries) with YBA. The UX has been dramatically simplified.

* Force update of EIT certs. If EIT certs expire, customers can now "force update" the replacement of certs with new ones, removing the need to call Technical Support.

* [Clock sync](). Fire clock sync alert when Network Time Protocol Daemon (ntpd) is not enabled or not running on a node of a YugabyteDB universe. {{<tags/feature/ea>}}

* [Restore to PIT](/stable/yugabyte-platform/back-up-restore-universes/restore-universe-data/#restore-a-pitr-enabled-backup). As an alternative to Fast Clone to PIT (which occurs on the same cluster), recovery from SQL errors can occur on a separate cluster via this restore (from a backup) to specifiable point in time feature. {{<tags/feature/ea>}}

* [Support for OIDC groups in YugabyteDB Anywhere](/stable/yugabyte-platform/administer-yugabyte-platform/oidc-authentication/#use-oidc-groups-with-yugabytedb-anywhere-roles). In support of role-based access control (RBAC), ability to assign YugabyteDB Anywhere roles to groups from an OIDC-based Identity Provider.

* [Support for OIDC groups in YBA (for custom roles)]() In support of role-based access control (RBAC), ability to assign YBA Custom Roles to groups from an OIDC-based Identity Provider. {{<tags/feature/ea>}}

* [Backup portability](/stable/yugabyte-platform/back-up-restore-universes/restore-universe-data/#advanced-restore-procedure). After sending backups to a cloud object store (such as S3, GCS, or Azure blob storage), you can now copy those backup sets to other cloud storage buckets and restore from them.

* Kubernetes
  * [Kubernetes Resource Specification](/stable/yugabyte-platform/create-deployments/create-universe-multi-zone-kubernetes/#instance-configuration). You can configure CPU and memory needs for YB-TServer and YB-Master pods natively, instead of using the instance types API.
  * [Yugabyte Kubernetes Operator](/stable/yugabyte-platform/anywhere-automation/yb-kubernetes-operator/). A powerful tool designed to automate the deployment, scaling, and management of YugabyteDB clusters in Kubernetes environments. It streamlines database operations, reducing manual effort for developers and operators. {{<tags/feature/ea>}}
  * [K8s service endpoint documentation guidance](/stable/yugabyte-platform/create-deployments/create-universe-multi-zone-kubernetes/#create-common-yb-tserver-service-for-zones). Documented the workflow to create a unified service endpoint for all TServers in single namespace universes.
  * [Kubernetes readiness probe](/stable/yugabyte-platform/create-deployments/create-universe-multi-zone-kubernetes/#configure-helm-overrides). Added readiness probes for TServer and Master pods in YugabyteDB, supporting custom or default configurations, thereby enhancing stability by ensuring YSQL/YCQL and YB-Master pods are ready before traffic is routed.
  * [K8s Service endpoint](/stable/yugabyte-platform/create-deployments/create-universe-multi-zone-kubernetes/#create-a-common-load-balancer-service-for-yb-masters-yb-tservers). For single-region universes in Kubernetes, we've added support for creating a unified service endpoint.  This is in addition to the already-supported one service endpoint per availability zone (AZ).
  * [ARM processor support for Kubernetes universes](/stable/yugabyte-platform/create-deployments/create-universe-multi-zone-kubernetes/). Support has been added for running Kubernetes-based universes on ARM CPUs. {{<tags/feature/tp>}}
  * Non-disruptive flag changes for K8s. Adding and modifying certain selected configuration flags for YB-Master and YB-TServer nodes in a Kubernetes universe can now be performed without restarting the Master or T-Server processes.

* [YBA HA enhancements](/stable/yugabyte-platform/troubleshoot/universe-issues/). Added validation checks to ensure split-brain correctness post failover. Specifically, after a failover to YugabyteDB Anywhere B, if YugabyteDB Anywhere B detects that its state is out-of-sync with a universe it's operating on, YugabyteDB Anywhere B aborts the operation.

* [Support Bundle collection improvements](/stable/yugabyte-platform/troubleshoot/universe-issues/#use-support-bundles).Support bundles now optionally include time series metrics.  Also, collection is more resilient to point failures; if one data collection task fails, the collection operation ignores the failure and proceeds.

* [Connection pooling](). Optional server-side Connection Pooling enables more connections per cluster, more efficient memory usage, and faster first connection (and therefore first query) latencies. {{<tags/feature/tp>}}

* [Improved node and process metrics](/stable/yugabyte-platform/alerts-monitoring/anywhere-metrics/#per-process). Metrics are now being collected about each node's processes (PG, YBC, node agent, otel agent, and so on.). Metrics cover up times, activity counts, cpu/memory consumed, and so on.

* [Non-root installation of YBA](/stable/yugabyte-platform/install-yugabyte-platform/install-software/installer/). You can install YugabyteDB Anywhere as a de-privileged user; a root-privileged user is no longer required.  This reduces friction and security concerns during initial testing, setup, and proof of concepts. {{<tags/feature/ea>}}

* [Improved support for bi-directional xCluster](). Bi-directional xCluster supports adding a non-empty table to the replication stream, and safeguards against the unsafe (and potentially data-overwriting) action of restarting replication. {{<tags/feature/ea>}}

* [Azure Support for multiple Resource Groups (one per Region)](/stable/yugabyte-platform/configure-yugabyte-platform/azure). Support for Azure configurations with one Azure Resource Group per region (and also one network per Azure Resource Group), a configuration providing better network management and resilience. {{<tags/feature/ea>}}

### Change log

<details>
  <summary>View the detailed changelog</summary>

</details>