---
title: What's new in the YugabyteDB Anywhere v2025.1 STS release series
headerTitle: What's new in the YugabyteDB Anywhere v2025.1 STS release series
linkTitle: v2025.1 series (STS)
description: Enhancements, changes, and resolved issues in the YugaybteDB Anywhere v2025.1 STS release series.
menu:
  preview_releases:
    identifier: yba-v2025.1
    parent: yba-releases
    weight: 1000
type: docs
---

What follows are the release notes for all releases in the **YugabyteDB Anywhere** (YBA) v2025.1 series. Content will be added as new notable features and changes are available in the patch releases of the YBA v2025.1 series.

For an RSS feed of all release series, point your feed reader to the [RSS feed for releases](../index.xml).

## v2025.1.0.0 - July 9, 2024 {#v2025.1.0.0}

**Build:** `2025.1.0.0-b145`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.0.0/yugabytedb-2025.1.0.0-b145-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.0.0/yugabytedb-anywhere-2025.1.0.0-b145-third-party-licenses.html)

### Download

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.0.0/yba_installer_full-2025.1.0.0-b145-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

### Highlights

We're excited to announce the key features and enhancements in the 2025.1.0.0 release, designed to improve performance, usability, and management of your database environments.

**Automatic provisioning of on-premise nodes with YugabyteDB Node Provisioner (YNP)** {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1803">}}

Preparing Linux DB Nodes for use in an on-prem universe has been simplified via a `node-agent-provision.sh` script. Older methods are deprecated.
For more information, refer to [Automatically provision on-premises nodes](/stable/yugabyte-platform/prepare/server-nodes-software/software-on-prem/#run-the-provisioning-script).

**YBA CLI** {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1879">}}

The YBA CLI, for interacting with YugabyteDB Anywhere from the command line, is now available in GA.
For more information, refer to [YugabyteDB Anywhere CLI](/stable/yugabyte-platform/anywhere-automation/anywhere-cli/).

**Support bundle: Reduced bundle size and enhanced Call Home** {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1861">}}

You can now cancel the collection of support bundles. Collection is also parallelized for faster performance, and bundles include new information such as tablet layout and system logs.
For more information, refer to [Use support bundles](/stable/yugabyte-platform/troubleshoot/universe-issues/#use-support-bundles).

### New features

* Perform [online upgrades to PostgreSQL 15](/stable/yugabyte-platform/manage-deployments/ysql-major-upgrade-yba/) to ensure access to the latest performance improvements, new extension capabilities, and compliance with organizational upgrade policies. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="358">}}

* [CipherTrust support](/stable/yugabyte-platform/security/create-kms-config/ciphertrust-kms/). You can now use Thales CipherTrust as the Key Management System (KMS) for encryption at rest. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1227">}}

* [xCluster DR improvements](/stable/yugabyte-platform/back-up-restore-universes/disaster-recovery/). NFS-based backup/restore for the initial full copy is improved (with an optional replication delay), failure handling is improved (retry, rollback, cancel support), and you can rotate certificates without breaking xCluster replication. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1806">}}

* [RBAC](/stable/yugabyte-platform/administer-yugabyte-platform/anywhere-rbac/) enhancements. You can now restrict users, such as DBAs, to manage only a specific subset of universes (while other DBAs manage other universes). {{<tags/feature/ga idea="509">}}

* Kubernetes

  * [Yugabyte Kubernetes operator](/stable/yugabyte-platform/anywhere-automation/yb-kubernetes-operator/). A powerful tool designed to automate deploying, scaling, and managing YugabyteDB clusters in Kubernetes environments. It streamlines database operations, reducing manual effort for developers and operators. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1448">}}

    <!-- Other Kubernetes operator IDEA {{<tags/feature/ga idea="664">}} -->
    <!-- Other Kubernetes operator IDEA {{<tags/feature/ga idea="831">}} -->

  * Pause/resume and vertical scaling (specifically, changing the disk size for pods containing Master processes) is now supported. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1493">}}

  * Pod Disruption Budgets (PDBs) are now set for TServer and Master pod collections, rather than at the AZ level, for both new and upgraded universes. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1489">}}

  * [Support for Kubernetes CertManager with AWS private CA issuer](/stable/yugabyte-platform/security/enable-encryption-in-transit/add-certificate-kubernetes/) for encryption in transit. When using encryption-in-transit with K8s-based universes, support has been added for aws-privateca-issuer. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="2023">}}

* Preemptible Backups. In-progress backups (such as scheduled ones) can now be automatically pre-empted by other universe actions that were formerly blocked. A preempted backup will automatically be restarted and retried after the other operation completes. {{<tags/feature/ea idea="1636">}}

* [Automated migration to node agent](/stable/yugabyte-platform/upgrade/prepare-to-upgrade/). You can now have YugabyteDB Anywhere automatically upgrade legacy universes that were provisioned without node agent via a banner alert. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1789">}}

* [Deprecation of cron on DB nodes](/stable/yugabyte-platform/upgrade/prepare-to-upgrade/). The use of cron to start YB services on DB nodes has been deprecated. Instead, use systemd. YBA now flags any existing DB nodes using cron with a warning containing remediation instructions. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1805">}}

* [GCP hyperdisk support](/stable/deploy/checklist/#disks). Google Cloud Hyperdisks (Balanced and Extreme) are now supported disk type options when creating universes on Google Cloud Platform. These disk types are only available in some GCP regions. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1946">}}

* [Batching of rolling operations](/stable/yugabyte-platform/manage-deployments/edit-config-flags/#batched-rolling-restart). YugabyteDB Anywhere now supports applying changes to multiple nodes in VMs/K8s simultaneously (and in parallel) in each availability zone during rolling operations, such as software upgrades and flag changes. This can reduce the time required to perform rolling operations on large clusters by 2x, 3x, or more depending on the (configurable) batch size. {{<tags/feature/ea idea="444">}}
<!-- {{<tags/feature/ea idea="1710">}} -->

* [Monitor universe tasks](/stable/yugabyte-platform/manage-deployments/retry-failed-task/). The Task History log has been augmented to show the before and after state for each task. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1224">}}

* [YSQL Audit Logs](/stable/yugabyte-platform/alerts-monitoring/universe-logging). Support for producing and exporting audit logs of PostgreSQL statements (which is often required for compliance with government, financial, or ISO certifications) to a log aggregator. This is based on the pgaudit extension. This is based on the pgaudit extension. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1773">}}

* [Pagination for Task list API](https://api-docs.yugabyte.com/docs/yugabyte-platform/6b11a331b0b14-list-tasks-paginated). The tasks_list REST API now supports paginated (batched) retrieval. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1883">}}

* [Improved support for bi-directional xCluster](/stable/yugabyte-platform/manage-deployments/xcluster-replication/bidirectional-replication/#ddl-operations-in-bidirectional-replication). Bi-directional xCluster supports adding a non-empty table to the replication stream, and safeguards against the unsafe (and potentially data-overwriting) action of restarting replication. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1533">}}

### Change log

<details>
  <summary>View the detailed changelog</summary>

### Improvements

### Bug fixes

</details>