managed/ui/README.md, before:

Ensure that the node/npm binaries are recent. For example,
\$ npm -v
7.24.0

\$ node -v
v16.10.0

### `npm install`

Install all the dependencies needed for the project

### `npm start`

Runs the app in the development mode.<br>
Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in the browser.

Ensure that the yugaware side is also running using `sbt run` in ~/code/yugaware directory.<br>

The page will reload if you make edits.<br>
You will also see any lint errors in the console.

### `npm run build`

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.<br>
It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.<br>
Your app is ready to be deployed!

### Generating Map Tiles and uploading to S3

The maps in Yugaware are generated using TileMill and mbTiles project and uploaded to S3, from where they are downloaded into /public folder during the build process.
To generate your own Map tiles, do the following -

1. Download TileMill or build from source https://tilemill-project.github.io/tilemill/
2. Create Outline World Map , customize styles using CartoCSS http://tilemill-project.github.io/tilemill/docs/manual/carto/
3. Export to .mbTiles file (choose zoom level, center, tile quality etc. all of which will affect the size of your output)
4. Use mbutil to generate base map pngs.
5. git clone git://github.com/mapbox/mbutil.git
6. mb-util <our-filename-here>.mbtiles <destination-folder-name>
7. Upload to S3 bucket, make sure permissions are open, set content/type to "image/png"

Commit message:

[PLAT-18023] Migrate to Vite and upgrade node verison to 22.18
Summary:
This diff migrates our frontend build tool from CRA with CRACO to Vite.
A motivating factor for this migration is the announcement of CRA depreciation this year: https://react.dev/blog/2025/02/14/sunsetting-create-react-app
Since CRACO exists to provide more customization of CRA without ejecting, the maintainer has also announced they won't be releasing major updates to the project and
has already started using other frameworks for their personal projects: https://github.com/dilanx/craco/issues/707#issuecomment-2663801186
Vite is a natural drop-in replacement here and has already been adopted by several other frontend projects in our organization.
After migrating to Vite, we saw UI startup time from ~3-5 minutes down to ~690ms,

This diff also upgrades the node version from v16 to v22.18 as node v16 has already reached EOL.

To ensure the right node version is being used in test & build pipelines, this diff improves the build step by
running a setup-node.sh script to install the recommended node version prior to installing packages/building.

Note that we now export svgs as ReactComponents by default.
To opt out of this, you can add a `?img` suffix in the import line and continue
using the svg in your `<img />` tag as a source.

Test Plan:
Tested various user flows and user screens to check for functional and visual regressions.
Verify production build and ensure there are no errors introduced in our UI integration tests.
{F425596}

Reviewers: rmadhavan, kkannan, lsangappa

Reviewed By: kkannan

Subscribers: svc_phabricator, yugaware

Differential Revision: https://phorge.dev.yugabyte.com/D49075

managed/ui/README.md, after:

Ensure the Node and NPM version satisfies the version requirement in package.json.

It is recommended to use nvm (https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) to manage your node versions.
You can run `nvm use` under the `ui` directory to ensure you're running the recommended node version
specified in `.nvmrc`. 

### `npm ci`

Install all the dependencies needed for the project

### `npm start`

Runs the app in the development mode.<br>
Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in the browser.

Ensure that the yugaware side is also running using `sbt run` in ~/code/yugaware directory.<br>

The page will reload if you make edits.<br>
You will also see any lint errors in the console.

### `npm run build`

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.<br>
It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.<br>
Your app is ready to be deployed!

### Generating Map Tiles and uploading to S3

The maps in Yugaware are generated using TileMill and mbTiles project and uploaded to S3, from where they are downloaded into /public folder during the build process.
To generate your own Map tiles, do the following -

1. Download TileMill or build from source https://tilemill-project.github.io/tilemill/
2. Create Outline World Map , customize styles using CartoCSS http://tilemill-project.github.io/tilemill/docs/manual/carto/
3. Export to .mbTiles file (choose zoom level, center, tile quality etc. all of which will affect the size of your output)
4. Use mbutil to generate base map pngs.
5. git clone git://github.com/mapbox/mbutil.git
6. mb-util <our-filename-here>.mbtiles <destination-folder-name>
7. Upload to S3 bucket, make sure permissions are open, set content/type to "image/png"
