docs/content/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-monitor/cloud-queries-slow.md, before:

---
title: View slow queries in YugabyteDB Aeon
headerTitle: View slow queries
linkTitle: Slow queries
description: View slow running queries that have run on your YugabyteDB Aeon cluster.
headcontent: View slow running queries that have run on your cluster
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-cloud:
    identifier: cloud-queries-slow
    parent: cloud-monitor
    weight: 300
type: docs
---

Evaluate the performance of slow queries that have run on your cluster using the **Slow Queries** option on the cluster **Performance** tab. Use this data to:

- Visually identify slower running database operations.
- Evaluate query execution times over time.
- Discover potential queries for [tuning](../../../explore/query-1-performance/).

{{< youtube id="hXphqRCQImQ" title="Monitor and optimize queries in YugabyteDB Aeon" >}}

Slow queries are not available for YCQL.

![Cluster Slow Queries](/images/yb-cloud/managed-monitor-slow-queries.png)

To filter the query list, enter query text in the filter field. To sort the list by column, click the column heading. Click **Edit Options** to select the columns to display.

To reset the slow queries list, click **Reset**.

To view query details, click the right-arrow button for the query in the list to display the **Query Details** sheet.

The following table describes the **Slow Queries** column values.

| Column          | Description                                                  |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| User            | The name of role used to access YSQL database.               |
| Total time      | The total duration (in milliseconds) of all iterations this query has taken. |
| Count           | The total number of times this type of query has executed.   |
| Rows            | The total number of database table rows returned across all iterations of this query |
| Database        | The YSQL database used by the query.                         |

Commit message:

YBM slow query latency histogram

docs/content/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-monitor/cloud-queries-slow.md, after:

---
title: View slow queries in YugabyteDB Aeon
headerTitle: View slow queries
linkTitle: Slow queries
description: View slow running queries that have run on your YugabyteDB Aeon cluster.
headcontent: View slow running queries that have run on your cluster
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-cloud:
    identifier: cloud-queries-slow
    parent: cloud-monitor
    weight: 300
type: docs
---

Evaluate the performance of slow queries that have run on your cluster using the **Slow Queries** option on the cluster **Performance** tab.

{{< youtube id="hXphqRCQImQ" title="Monitor and optimize queries in YugabyteDB Aeon" >}}

Use this data to:

- Visually identify slower running database operations.
- Evaluate query execution times over time.
- Discover potential queries for [tuning](../../../explore/query-1-performance/).
- View latency percentile metrics, including P99, P95, and P90 percentiles.

Slow queries are not available for YCQL.

![Cluster Slow Queries](/images/yb-cloud/managed-monitor-slow-queries.png)

To filter the query list, enter query text in the filter field. To sort the list by column, click the column heading.

Click **Edit Options** to select the columns to display. The following table describes the **Slow Queries** column values.

| Column          | Description                                                  |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Query           | The query statement.               |
| User            | The name of role used to access YSQL database.               |
| Database        | The YSQL database used by the query.                         |
| Avg time        | The average execution time (in milliseconds) for this query. |
| Count           | The total number of times this type of query has executed.   |
| Total time      | The total duration (in milliseconds) of all iterations this query has taken. |
| Rows            | The total number of database table rows returned across all iterations of this query |
| Min time        | The minimum execution time (in milliseconds) for this query. |
| Max time        | The maximum execution time (in milliseconds) for this query. |
| Latency distribution | Histogram showing the latency distribution of the query. |

To reset the slow queries list, click **Reset**. To update the slow queries list, click **Refresh**.

## Query details

To view query details, click the row for the query to display the **Query Details** sheet.

The query details show a full view of the query statement, along with all the column data, the P25, P50, P90, P95, and P99 latency metrics, and a chart of the latency histogram. The chart shows the query count by response time range, in milliseconds; linear and logarithmic views are available. (Latency histogram support is only available for clusters running YugabyteDB v2.18.1 (or later), or v2.19.1 (or later).)

![Query Details](/images/yb-cloud/managed-monitor-slow-queries-details.png)
