docs/content/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-monitor/managed-integrations.md, before:

---
title: Integrate with third-party tools for exporting cluster data
headerTitle: Integrations
linkTitle: Integrations
description: Set up links to third-party tools.
headcontent: Set up links to third-party tools
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-cloud:
    identifier: managed-integrations
    parent: cloud-monitor
    weight: 600
type: docs
---

You can export cluster metrics and logs to third-party tools for analysis and customization. Exporting data is a two-stage process:

1. Create an export configuration. A configuration defines the sign in credentials and settings for the tool that you want to export to.
1. Use the configuration to export data from a cluster. While the connection is active, metrics or logs are automatically streamed to the tool.

Currently, you can export data to the following tools:

- [Datadog](https://docs.datadoghq.com/)
- [Grafana Cloud](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/)
- [Sumo Logic](https://www.sumologic.com)
- [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview/) {{<badge/tp>}}

Exporting cluster metrics and logs counts against your data transfer allowance. This may incur additional costs for network transfer, especially for cross-region and internet-based transfers, if usage exceeds your cluster allowance. Refer to [Data transfer costs](../../cloud-admin/cloud-billing-costs/#data-transfer-costs).

For information on how to export metrics and logs from a cluster using an integration, refer to [Export metrics](../metrics-export/) and [Export logs](../logging-export/).

## Configure integrations

Create and manage export configurations on the **Integrations** page.

![Integrations](/images/yb-cloud/managed-integrations.png)

The page lists the configured and available third-party integrations.

### Manage integrations

You can add and delete export configurations for the following tools. You can't delete a configuration that is assigned to a cluster.

{{< tabpane text=true >}}

  {{% tab header="Datadog" lang="datadog" %}}

The Datadog integration requires the following:

- Datadog account
- Datadog [API key](https://docs.datadoghq.com/account_management/api-app-keys/)

To create an export configuration, do the following:

1. On the **Integrations** page, click **Configure** for the Datadog provider or, if a configuration is already available, **Add Configuration**.
1. Enter a name for the configuration.
1. Enter your Datadog [API key](https://docs.datadoghq.com/account_management/api-app-keys/).
1. Choose the Datadog site to connect to, or choose Self-hosted and enter your URL.
1. Optionally, click **Download** to download the Datadog [dashboard](https://docs.datadoghq.com/dashboards/) template. You can import this JSON format template into your Datadog account and use it as a starting point for visualizing your cluster data in Datadog.
1. Click **Test Configuration** to make sure your connection is working.
1. Click **Create Configuration**.

  {{% /tab %}}

  {{% tab header="Grafana Cloud" lang="grafana" %}}

The Grafana Cloud integration requires the following:

- Grafana Cloud account and stack. For best performance and lower data transfer costs, deploy your stack in the region closest to your cluster. For a list of supported regions, see the [Grafana Cloud documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/account-management/regional-availability/).
- Access policy token. You need to create an Access policy with metrics:write scope, and then add a token. For more information, see [Grafana Cloud Access Policies](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/account-management/authentication-and-permissions/access-policies/authorize-services/) in the Grafana documentation.

To create an export configuration, do the following:

1. On the **Integrations** page, click **Configure** for the Grafana Cloud provider or, if a configuration is already available, **Add Configuration**.
1. Enter a name for the configuration.
1. Enter your organization name. This is displayed in the URL when you connect to your Grafana Cloud Portal (for example, `https://grafana.com/orgs/<organization-name>`).
1. Enter your Grafana Cloud [Access policy token](#grafana-cloud).
1. Enter your Grafana Cloud instance ID and zone. Obtain these by navigating to the Grafana Cloud portal, selecting your stack, and on the Grafana tile, clicking **Details**. They are displayed under **Instance Details**.
1. Optionally, click **Download** to download the Grafana Cloud dashboard template. You can [import this JSON format template](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/dashboards/manage-dashboards/#export-and-import-dashboards) into your Grafana account and use it as a starting point for visualizing your cluster data in Grafana. The dashboard is also available from the [Grafana Dashboards](https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/19887-yugabytedb-managed-clusters/) page.
1. Click **Test Configuration** to make sure your connection is working.
1. Click **Create Configuration**.

  {{% /tab %}}

  {{% tab header="Sumo Logic" lang="sumo" %}}

The Sumo Logic integration requires the following:

- Create an [access ID and access key](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/manage/security/access-keys/) on the **Preferences** page under your profile name.
- [Installation token](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/manage/security/installation-tokens/). These are available under **Administration > Security > Installation Tokens**.
- To use the dashboard template, [install the YugabyteDB app](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/get-started/apps-integrations/) (coming soon) in your Sumo Logic account.

To create an export configuration, do the following:

1. On the **Integrations** page, click **Configure** for the Sumo Logic provider or, if a configuration is already available, **Add Configuration**.
1. Enter a name for the configuration.
1. Enter your installation token, access ID, and access key.
1. Optionally, click **Download** to download the Sumo Logic dashboard template. After you install the [YugabyteDB app](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/get-started/apps-integrations/) (coming soon) in your Sumo Logic account, you can import this JSON format template and use it as a starting point for visualizing your cluster data.
1. Click **Test Configuration** to make sure your connection is working.
1. Click **Create Configuration**.

  {{% /tab %}}

  {{% tab header="Prometheus" lang="prometheus" %}}

Prometheus integration is {{<badge/tp>}} and only available for clusters deployed on AWS.

The Prometheus integration requires the following:

- Prometheus instance
  - deployed in a VPC on AWS
  - [OLTP Receiver](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/api/#otlp-receiver) feature flag enabled
  - publically-accessible endpoint URL that resolves to the private IP of the Prometheus instance; the DNS for the endpoint must be in a public hosted zone in AWS.
  - VPC hosting the Prometheus instance has the following Inbound Security Group rules:
    - Allow HTTP inbound traffic on port 80 for Prometheus endpoint URL (HTTP)
    - Allow HTTPS inbound traffic on port 443 for Prometheus endpoint URL (HTTPS)

    See [Control traffic to your AWS resources using security groups](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/vpc-security-groups.html) in the AWS documentation.

- YugabyteDB Aeon cluster from which you want to export metrics
  - the cluster is [deployed in VPCs](../../cloud-basics/cloud-vpcs/cloud-add-vpc/) on AWS
  - each region VPC is peered with the VPC hosting Prometheus. See [Peer VPCs](../../cloud-basics/cloud-vpcs/cloud-add-vpc-aws/).

  As each region of a cluster deployed in AWS has its own VPC, make sure that all the VPCs are peered and allow inbound access from Prometheus; this also applies to regions you add or change after deployment, and to read replicas. For information on VPC networking in YugabyteDB Aeon, see [VPC network overview](../../cloud-basics/cloud-vpcs/cloud-vpc-intro/).

To create an export configuration, do the following:

1. On the **Integrations** page, click **Configure** for the Prometheus provider or, if a configuration is already available, **Add Configuration**.
1. Enter a name for the configuration.
1. Enter the endpoint URL of the Prometheus instance.
1. Click **Create Configuration**.

  {{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabpane >}}

To view the configurations, click the **View** button for the provider.

To delete a configuration, click **View** and choose **Delete**.

Note that you can't modify an existing integration configuration. If you need to change an integration (for example, to replace or update an API key) for a particular tool, do the following:

1. Create a new configuration for the provider with the updated information.
1. Assign the new configuration to your clusters.
1. Unassign the old configuration from clusters.
1. Delete the old configuration.

Commit message:

[BACKPORT pg15-cherrypicks] all: Bulk port from master - 84
Summary:
 af6cbad8a5 Add note box to install (#23582)
 3e927c69a4 [PLAT-14928]: Add ability to override Master, TServer and Node Exporter  ports during Edit Universe in Non-k8 environment
 a98768e721 [PLAT-11553][PLAT-12297] YBA CLI - VM Image Upgrades
 ca8843d014 [PLAT-15027] Fix API token to not contain $ sign instead use a safe char .
 dbf2a5ae98 [PLAT-14695] preflight checks validate multiple ntp services
 a884e72f50 Add a doc page to show all flags for yb-master and yb-tserver releases #21664 (#23508)
 f566e0280b [PLAT-14945][PLAT-15006][PLAT-15017]: Fix xCluster metrics and Add/Remove tables with bootstrap needed.
 6fe34d463e [PLAT-13707] redact ysql_hba_conf_csv value from logs

Test Plan: Jenkins: rebase: pg15-cherrypicks

Reviewers: jason, tfoucher

Differential Revision: https://phorge.dev.yugabyte.com/D37504

docs/content/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-monitor/managed-integrations.md, after:

---
title: Integrate with third-party tools in YugabyteDB Aeon
headerTitle: Integrations
linkTitle: Integrations
description: Set up links to third-party tools in YugabyteDB Aeon.
headcontent: Set up links to third-party tools
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-cloud:
    identifier: managed-integrations
    parent: cloud-monitor
    weight: 600
type: docs
---

You can export cluster metrics and logs to third-party tools for analysis and customization. Exporting data is a two-stage process:

1. Create an export configuration. A configuration defines the sign in credentials and settings for the tool that you want to export to.
1. Use the configuration to export data from a cluster. While the connection is active, metrics or logs are automatically streamed to the tool.

Currently, you can export data to the following tools:

- [Datadog](https://docs.datadoghq.com/)
- [Grafana Cloud](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/)
- [Sumo Logic](https://www.sumologic.com)
- [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview/) {{<badge/tp>}}

Exporting cluster metrics and logs counts against your data transfer allowance. This may incur additional costs for network transfer, especially for cross-region and internet-based transfers, if usage exceeds your cluster allowance. Refer to [Data transfer costs](../../cloud-admin/cloud-billing-costs/#data-transfer-costs).

For information on how to export metrics and logs from a cluster using an integration, refer to [Export metrics](../metrics-export/) and [Export logs](../logging-export/).

## Configure integrations

Create and manage export configurations on the **Integrations** page.

![Integrations](/images/yb-cloud/managed-integrations.png)

The page lists the configured and available third-party integrations.

### Manage integrations

You can add and delete export configurations for the following tools. You can't delete a configuration that is assigned to a cluster.

{{< tabpane text=true >}}

  {{% tab header="Datadog" lang="datadog" %}}

The Datadog integration requires the following:

- Datadog account
- Datadog [API key](https://docs.datadoghq.com/account_management/api-app-keys/)

To create an export configuration, do the following:

1. On the **Integrations** page, click **Configure** for the Datadog provider or, if a configuration is already available, **Add Configuration**.
1. Enter a name for the configuration.
1. Enter your Datadog [API key](https://docs.datadoghq.com/account_management/api-app-keys/).
1. Choose the Datadog site to connect to, or choose Self-hosted and enter your URL.
1. Optionally, click **Download** to download the Datadog [dashboard](https://docs.datadoghq.com/dashboards/) template. You can import this JSON format template into your Datadog account and use it as a starting point for visualizing your cluster data in Datadog.
1. Click **Test Configuration** to make sure your connection is working.
1. Click **Create Configuration**.

  {{% /tab %}}

  {{% tab header="Grafana Cloud" lang="grafana" %}}

The Grafana Cloud integration requires the following:

- Grafana Cloud account and stack. For best performance and lower data transfer costs, deploy your stack in the region closest to your cluster. For a list of supported regions, see the [Grafana Cloud documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/account-management/regional-availability/).
- Access policy token. You need to create an Access policy with metrics:write scope, and then add a token. For more information, see [Grafana Cloud Access Policies](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/account-management/authentication-and-permissions/access-policies/authorize-services/) in the Grafana documentation.

To create an export configuration, do the following:

1. On the **Integrations** page, click **Configure** for the Grafana Cloud provider or, if a configuration is already available, **Add Configuration**.
1. Enter a name for the configuration.
1. Enter your organization name. This is displayed in the URL when you connect to your Grafana Cloud Portal (for example, `https://grafana.com/orgs/<organization-name>`).
1. Enter your Grafana Cloud [Access policy token](#grafana-cloud).
1. Enter your Grafana Cloud instance ID and zone. Obtain these by navigating to the Grafana Cloud portal, selecting your stack, and on the Grafana tile, clicking **Details**. They are displayed under **Instance Details**.
1. Optionally, click **Download** to download the Grafana Cloud dashboard template. You can [import this JSON format template](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/dashboards/manage-dashboards/#export-and-import-dashboards) into your Grafana account and use it as a starting point for visualizing your cluster data in Grafana. The dashboard is also available from the [Grafana Dashboards](https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/19887-yugabytedb-managed-clusters/) page.
1. Click **Test Configuration** to make sure your connection is working.
1. Click **Create Configuration**.

  {{% /tab %}}

  {{% tab header="Sumo Logic" lang="sumo" %}}

The Sumo Logic integration requires the following:

- Create an [access ID and access key](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/manage/security/access-keys/) on the **Preferences** page under your profile name.
- [Installation token](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/manage/security/installation-tokens/). These are available under **Administration > Security > Installation Tokens**.
- To use the dashboard template, [install the YugabyteDB app](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/get-started/apps-integrations/) (coming soon) in your Sumo Logic account.

To create an export configuration, do the following:

1. On the **Integrations** page, click **Configure** for the Sumo Logic provider or, if a configuration is already available, **Add Configuration**.
1. Enter a name for the configuration.
1. Enter your installation token, access ID, and access key.
1. Optionally, click **Download** to download the Sumo Logic dashboard template. After you install the [YugabyteDB app](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/get-started/apps-integrations/) (coming soon) in your Sumo Logic account, you can import this JSON format template and use it as a starting point for visualizing your cluster data.
1. Click **Test Configuration** to make sure your connection is working.
1. Click **Create Configuration**.

  {{% /tab %}}

  {{% tab header="Prometheus" lang="prometheus" %}}

Prometheus integration is {{<badge/tp>}} and only available for clusters deployed on AWS.

The Prometheus integration requires the following:

- Prometheus instance
  - deployed in a VPC on AWS
  - [OLTP Receiver](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/api/#otlp-receiver) feature flag enabled
  - publically-accessible endpoint URL that resolves to the private IP of the Prometheus instance; the DNS for the endpoint must be in a public hosted zone in AWS.
  - VPC hosting the Prometheus instance has the following Inbound Security Group rules:
    - Allow HTTP inbound traffic on port 80 for Prometheus endpoint URL (HTTP)
    - Allow HTTPS inbound traffic on port 443 for Prometheus endpoint URL (HTTPS)

    See [Control traffic to your AWS resources using security groups](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/vpc-security-groups.html) in the AWS documentation.

- YugabyteDB Aeon cluster from which you want to export metrics
  - the cluster is [deployed in VPCs](../../cloud-basics/cloud-vpcs/cloud-add-vpc/) on AWS
  - each region VPC is peered with the VPC hosting Prometheus. See [Peer VPCs](../../cloud-basics/cloud-vpcs/cloud-add-vpc-aws/).

  As each region of a cluster deployed in AWS has its own VPC, make sure that all the VPCs are peered and allow inbound access from Prometheus; this also applies to regions you add or change after deployment, and to read replicas. For information on VPC networking in YugabyteDB Aeon, see [VPC network overview](../../cloud-basics/cloud-vpcs/cloud-vpc-intro/).

To create an export configuration, do the following:

1. On the **Integrations** page, click **Configure** for the Prometheus provider or, if a configuration is already available, **Add Configuration**.
1. Enter a name for the configuration.
1. Enter the endpoint URL of the Prometheus instance.
1. Click **Create Configuration**.

  {{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabpane >}}

To view the configurations, click the **View** button for the provider.

To delete a configuration, click **View** and choose **Delete**.

Note that you can't modify an existing integration configuration. If you need to change an integration (for example, to replace or update an API key) for a particular tool, do the following:

1. Create a new configuration for the provider with the updated information.
1. Assign the new configuration to your clusters.
1. Unassign the old configuration from clusters.
1. Delete the old configuration.
