docs/content/preview/api/ysql/the-sql-language/statements/streaming_create_repl_slot.md, before:

---
title: CREATE_REPLICATION_SLOT statement [YSQL]
headerTitle: CREATE_REPLICATION_SLOT
linkTitle: CREATE_REPLICATION_SLOT
description: Use the CREATE_REPLICATION_SLOT statement to create a replication slot.
menu:
  preview:
    identifier: streaming_create_repl_slot
    parent: statements
type: docs
---

## Synopsis

Use the `CREATE_REPLICATION_SLOT` statement to create a replication slot.

## Syntax

{{%ebnf%}}
  create_replication_slot
{{%/ebnf%}}

## Semantics

### *slot_name*

The name of the replication slot. The name of the replication slot must be **unique across all databases**.

### *output_plugin*

The name of the output plugin used for logical decoding.

### NOEXPORT_SNAPSHOT / USE_SNAPSHOT

Decides what to do with the snapshot created during logical slot initialization.

`USE_SNAPSHOT` indicates the intention of the client to consume the snapshot. This option must be used in a transaction, and `CREATE_REPLICATION_SLOT` must be the first command run in that transaction.

`NOEXPORT_SNAPSHOT` will just use the snapshot for logical decoding as normal but won't do anything else with it.

## Examples

Create a Replication Slot with name *test_replication_slot* and use the `yboutput` plugin.

```sql
yugabyte=# CREATE_REPLICATION_SLOT test_replication_slot LOGICAL yboutput;
```

Create a Replication Slot with name test_replication_slot and use the `pgoutput` plugin.

```sql
yugabyte=# CREATE_REPLICATION_SLOT test_replication_slot LOGICAL pgoutput;
```

## See also

- [`DROP_REPLICATION_SLOT`](../streaming_drop_repl_slot)
- [`START_REPLICATION`](../streaming_start_replication)

Commit message:

[docs] Add note about replication connection and stopping client for drop slot (#23526)
* Add note about replication connection and stopping client for drop slot

* Replace ysql_replication_slot_activity_threshold with ysql_cdc_active_replication_slot_window_ms

* Update docs/content/preview/api/ysql/the-sql-language/statements/streaming_drop_repl_slot.md

Co-authored-by: Vaibhav Kushwaha <34186745+vaibhav-yb@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/content/preview/api/ysql/the-sql-language/statements/streaming_drop_repl_slot.md

Co-authored-by: Vaibhav Kushwaha <34186745+vaibhav-yb@users.noreply.github.com>

* add description for the gflag

---------

Co-authored-by: Vaibhav Kushwaha <34186745+vaibhav-yb@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/content/preview/api/ysql/the-sql-language/statements/streaming_create_repl_slot.md, after:

---
title: CREATE_REPLICATION_SLOT statement [YSQL]
headerTitle: CREATE_REPLICATION_SLOT
linkTitle: CREATE_REPLICATION_SLOT
description: Use the CREATE_REPLICATION_SLOT statement to create a replication slot.
menu:
  preview:
    identifier: streaming_create_repl_slot
    parent: statements
type: docs
---

{{< tip title="Requires replication connection." >}}
This command can only be executed on a walsender backend which can be started by establishing a replication connection. A replication connection can be created by passing the parameter `replication=database` in the connection string. Refer to examples section.
{{< /tip >}}

## Synopsis

Use the `CREATE_REPLICATION_SLOT` statement to create a replication slot.

## Syntax

{{%ebnf%}}
  create_replication_slot
{{%/ebnf%}}

## Semantics

### *slot_name*

The name of the replication slot. The name of the replication slot must be **unique across all databases**.

### *output_plugin*

The name of the output plugin used for logical decoding.

### NOEXPORT_SNAPSHOT / USE_SNAPSHOT

Decides what to do with the snapshot created during logical slot initialization.

`USE_SNAPSHOT` indicates the intention of the client to consume the snapshot. This option must be used in a transaction, and `CREATE_REPLICATION_SLOT` must be the first command run in that transaction.

`NOEXPORT_SNAPSHOT` will just use the snapshot for logical decoding as normal but won't do anything else with it.

## Examples

Establish a replication connection to the database `yugabyte`.

```sql
bin/ysqlsh "dbname=yugabyte replication=database"
```

Create a Replication Slot with name *test_replication_slot* and use the `yboutput` plugin.

```sql
yugabyte=# CREATE_REPLICATION_SLOT test_replication_slot LOGICAL yboutput;
```

Create a Replication Slot with name test_replication_slot and use the `pgoutput` plugin.

```sql
yugabyte=# CREATE_REPLICATION_SLOT test_replication_slot LOGICAL pgoutput;
```

## See also

- [`DROP_REPLICATION_SLOT`](../streaming_drop_repl_slot)
- [`START_REPLICATION`](../streaming_start_replication)
