docs/content/stable/manage/ysql-major-upgrade-yugabyted.md, before:

---
title: YSQL major upgrade using yugabyted
headerTitle: YSQL major upgrade
linkTitle: YSQL major upgrade
description: Upgrade YugabyteDB to PostgreSQL 15 using yugabyted
headcontent: Upgrade YugabyteDB to a version that supports PG 15
menu:
  stable:
    identifier: ysql-major-upgrade-1
    parent: manage-upgrade-deployment
    weight: 706
type: docs
---

Upgrading YugabyteDB from a version based on PostgreSQL 11 (all versions prior to v2.25) to a version based on PostgreSQL 15 (v2025.1 or later (stable) or v2.25 or later (preview)) requires additional steps. For instructions on upgrades within a major PostgreSQL version, refer to [Upgrade YugabyteDB](../upgrade-deployment/).

The upgrade is fully online. While the upgrade is in progress, you have full and uninterrupted read and write access to your cluster.

Performing a YSQL major upgrade on a universe with [CDC with logical replication](../../additional-features/change-data-capture/using-logical-replication/) requires additional steps.

<ul class="nav nav-tabs-alt nav-tabs-yb">
  <li>
    <a href="../ysql-major-upgrade-yugabyted/" class="nav-link active">
      <img src="/icons/database.svg" alt="Server Icon">
      Yugabyted
    </a>
  </li>

  <li>
    <a href="../ysql-major-upgrade-local/" class="nav-link">
      <i class="icon-shell"></i>
      Manual
    </a>
  </li>

  <li>
    <a href="../ysql-major-upgrade-logical-replication/" class="nav-link">
      <i class="icon-shell"></i>
      Logical Replication
    </a>
  </li>

</ul>

## Before you begin

- All DDL statements, except ones related to Temporary table and Refresh Materialized View, are blocked for the duration of the upgrade. Consider executing all DDLs before the upgrade, and pause any jobs that might run DDLs. DMLs are allowed.
- Upgrade client drivers.

    Upgrade all application client drivers to the new version. The client drivers are backwards compatible, and work with both the old and new versions of the database.
- Your cluster must be running v2024.2.3.0 or later.

    If you have a pre-existing cluster, first upgrade it to the latest version in the v2024.2 series using the [upgrade instructions](../upgrade-deployment/).

- If your cluster has dedicated YB-Master nodes (that is, nodes with YB-Master service only and no YB-TServer), you must create a superuser named `yugabyte_upgrade` and add its credentials to the `.pgpass` file on each YB-Master node. You can safely remove this user after the upgrade process is complete.

    ```sql
    CREATE USER yugabyte_upgrade WITH SUPERUSER PASSWORD '<strong_password>';
    ```

### Precheck

New PostgreSQL major versions add many new features and performance improvements, but also remove some older unsupported features and data types. You can only upgrade after you remove all deprecated features and data types from your databases.

Use the `upgrade check_version_compatibility` command to make sure your cluster is compatible with the new version.

```sh
./path_to_new_version/bin/yugabyted upgrade check_version_compatibility \
    --base_dir=~/yugabyte-data/node1
```

```output
output: ✅ Clusters are compatible for upgrade.
```

{{<tip title="Backup">}}
Back up your cluster at this time. Refer to [Backup](../../reference/configuration/yugabyted/#backup).
{{</tip>}}

In addition, refer to the following:

- [Prepare your cluster for upgrade](../upgrade-deployment/#1-prepare-the-cluster-for-the-upgrade)
- [Download and install the new version](../upgrade-deployment/#2-download-and-install-the-new-version)

## Upgrade phase

### Restart for catalog upgrade

Restart the nodes one at a time as follows:

```sh
./path_to_new_version/bin/yugabyted stop --upgrade=true \
    --base_dir=~/yugabyte-data/node1
```

```output
Stopped yugabyted using config /net/dev-server-hsunder/share/yugabyte-data/node1/conf/yugabyted.conf.
```

```sh
./path_to_new_version/bin/yugabyted start \
    --base_dir=~/yugabyte-data/node1
```

```output
Starting yugabyted...
✅ Upgrade status successfully verified
✅ YugabyteDB Started
✅ Node joined a running cluster with UUID 5dd3bda3-43a9-48fd-9c16-8399378fed12
✅ UI ready
✅ Data placement constraint successfully verified

+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                               yugabyted                                           |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Status              : Running.                                                                    |
| YSQL Status         : Ready                                                                       |
| Replication Factor  : 3                                                                           |
| YugabyteDB UI       : http://127.0.0.1:15433                                                      |
| JDBC                : jdbc:postgresql://127.0.0.1:5433/yugabyte?user=yugabyte&password=yugabyte   |
| YSQL                : bin/ysqlsh -h 127.0.0.1  -U yugabyte -d yugabyte                            |
| YCQL                : bin/ycqlsh 127.0.0.1 9042 -u cassandra                                      |
| Data Dir            : /net/dev-server-hsunder/share/yugabyte-data/node1/data                      |
| Log Dir             : /net/dev-server-hsunder/share/yugabyte-data/node1/logs                      |
| Universe UUID       : 5dd3bda3-43a9-48fd-9c16-8399378fed12                                        |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

### Upgrade YSQL catalog to the new version

Upgrade the YSQL catalog. You can run this command from any node.

```sh
./path_to_new_version/bin/yugabyted upgrade ysql_catalog \
    --base_dir=~/yugabyte-data/node1
```

```output
✅ YSQL catalog upgrade successful.

+----------------------------------------------------+
|                     yugabyted                      |
+----------------------------------------------------+
| Status        : YSQL catalog upgrade successful.   |
+----------------------------------------------------+
```

### Restart for PostgreSQL upgrade

Restart the nodes again one at a time as follows:

```sh
./path_to_new_version/bin/yugabyted stop --upgrade=true \
    --base_dir=~/yugabyte-data/node1
```

```output
Stopped yugabyted using config /net/dev-server-hsunder/share/yugabyte-data/node1/conf/yugabyted.conf.
```

```sh
./path_to_new_version/bin/yugabyted start \
    --base_dir=~/yugabyte-data/node1 \
    --tserver_flags="ysql_yb_major_version_upgrade_compatibility=11" \
    --master_flags="ysql_yb_major_version_upgrade_compatibility=11"
```

{{< warning title="Enable Mixed Mode" >}}
Restart nodes with the flag `ysql_yb_major_version_upgrade_compatibility=11` so that the universe can function in mixed mode, with both PostgreSQL 15 and (yet to be upgraded) PostgreSQL 11 nodes.
{{< /warning >}}

```output
Starting yugabyted...
✅ Upgrade status successfully verified
✅ YugabyteDB Started
✅ Node joined a running cluster with UUID 5dd3bda3-43a9-48fd-9c16-8399378fed12
✅ UI ready
✅ Data placement constraint successfully verified

+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                               yugabyted                                           |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Status              : Running.                                                                    |
| YSQL Status         : Ready                                                                       |
| Replication Factor  : 3                                                                           |
| YugabyteDB UI       : http://127.0.0.1:15433                                                      |
| JDBC                : jdbc:postgresql://127.0.0.1:5433/yugabyte?user=yugabyte&password=yugabyte   |
| YSQL                : bin/ysqlsh -h 127.0.0.1  -U yugabyte -d yugabyte                            |
| YCQL                : bin/ycqlsh 127.0.0.1 9042 -u cassandra                                      |
| Data Dir            : /net/dev-server-hsunder/share/yugabyte-data/node1/data                      |
| Log Dir             : /net/dev-server-hsunder/share/yugabyte-data/node1/logs                      |
| Universe UUID       : 5dd3bda3-43a9-48fd-9c16-8399378fed12                                        |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

### Disable mixed mode

After all the yugabyted nodes are on the same version, you can disable mixed mode by setting the `ysql_yb_major_version_upgrade_compatibility` flag to `0`. This allows you to re-enable the pushdown optimizations. Run the following on each node.

```sh
./path_to_new_version/bin/yb-ts-cli set_flag --server_address <current-yugabyted-node-advertise-address>:7100 ysql_yb_major_version_upgrade_compatibility 0

./path_to_new_version/bin/yb-ts-cli set_flag --server_address <current-yugabyted-node-advertise-address>:9100 ysql_yb_major_version_upgrade_compatibility 0
```

This does not require a restart.

## Monitor phase

After all the YB-Master and YB-TServer processes are upgraded, monitor the cluster to ensure it is healthy. Make sure workloads are running as expected and there are no errors in the logs.

You can remain in this phase for as long as you need, up to a _maximum recommended limit of two days_ to avoid operator errors that can arise from having to maintain two versions.

DDLs are not allowed even in this phase. New features that require format changes will not be available until the upgrade is finalized. Also, you cannot perform another upgrade until you have completed the current one.

## Finalize phase

After restarting all the nodes, finalize the upgrade by running the `yugabyted finalize_new_version` command. You can run this command from any node.

```sh
./path_to_new_version/bin/yugabyted upgrade finalize_new_version \
    --base_dir=~/yugabyte-data/node1 \
```

## Rollback phase

yugabyted does not currently support rollback.

## Post upgrade phase

- If you are using the cost based optimizer, run ANALYZE after the upgrade. {{<issue 25721>}}

## Limitations

- Expression pushdown is not available. {{<issue 24730>}}
- Upgrading with extensions is not yet supported. {{<issue 24733>}}
- Any backups that are taken in the monitoring phase can only be restored on a PG15 compatible universe (that is, backups cannot be restored if rollback is performed).

Commit message:

[DOC-1101] Update PITR and xCluster upgrade guidance (#29595)

docs/content/stable/manage/ysql-major-upgrade-yugabyted.md, after:

---
title: YSQL major upgrade using yugabyted
headerTitle: YSQL major upgrade
linkTitle: YSQL major upgrade
description: Upgrade YugabyteDB to PostgreSQL 15 using yugabyted
headcontent: Upgrade YugabyteDB to a version that supports PG 15
menu:
  stable:
    identifier: ysql-major-upgrade-1
    parent: manage-upgrade-deployment
    weight: 706
type: docs
---

Upgrading YugabyteDB from a version based on PostgreSQL 11 (all versions prior to v2.25) to a version based on PostgreSQL 15 (v2025.1 or later (stable) or v2.25 or later (preview)) requires additional steps. For instructions on upgrades within a major PostgreSQL version, refer to [Upgrade YugabyteDB](../upgrade-deployment/).

The upgrade is fully online. While the upgrade is in progress, you have full and uninterrupted read and write access to your cluster.

Performing a YSQL major upgrade on a universe with [CDC with logical replication](../../additional-features/change-data-capture/using-logical-replication/) requires additional steps.

<ul class="nav nav-tabs-alt nav-tabs-yb">
  <li>
    <a href="../ysql-major-upgrade-yugabyted/" class="nav-link active">
      <img src="/icons/database.svg" alt="Server Icon">
      Yugabyted
    </a>
  </li>

  <li>
    <a href="../ysql-major-upgrade-local/" class="nav-link">
      <i class="icon-shell"></i>
      Manual
    </a>
  </li>

  <li>
    <a href="../ysql-major-upgrade-logical-replication/" class="nav-link">
      <i class="icon-shell"></i>
      Logical Replication
    </a>
  </li>

</ul>

## Before you begin

- All DDL statements, except ones related to Temporary table and Refresh Materialized View, are blocked for the duration of the upgrade. Consider executing all DDLs before the upgrade, and pause any jobs that might run DDLs. DMLs are allowed.
- Upgrade client drivers.

    Upgrade all application client drivers to the new version. The client drivers are backwards compatible, and work with both the old and new versions of the database.
- Your cluster must be running v2024.2.3.0 or later.

    If you have a pre-existing cluster, first upgrade it to the latest version in the v2024.2 series using the [upgrade instructions](../upgrade-deployment/).

- If your cluster has dedicated YB-Master nodes (that is, nodes with YB-Master service only and no YB-TServer), you must create a superuser named `yugabyte_upgrade` and add its credentials to the `.pgpass` file on each YB-Master node. You can safely remove this user after the upgrade process is complete.

    ```sql
    CREATE USER yugabyte_upgrade WITH SUPERUSER PASSWORD '<strong_password>';
    ```

- If you have PITR enabled, delete the configuration before performing the upgrade. Recreate it only after the major upgrade is either finalized or rolled back.

### Precheck

New PostgreSQL major versions add many new features and performance improvements, but also remove some older unsupported features and data types. You can only upgrade after you remove all deprecated features and data types from your databases.

Use the `upgrade check_version_compatibility` command to make sure your cluster is compatible with the new version.

```sh
./path_to_new_version/bin/yugabyted upgrade check_version_compatibility \
    --base_dir=~/yugabyte-data/node1
```

```output
output: ✅ Clusters are compatible for upgrade.
```

{{<tip title="Backup">}}
Back up your cluster at this time. Refer to [Backup](../../reference/configuration/yugabyted/#backup).
{{</tip>}}

In addition, refer to the following:

- [Prepare your cluster for upgrade](../upgrade-deployment/#1-prepare-the-cluster-for-the-upgrade)
- [Download and install the new version](../upgrade-deployment/#2-download-and-install-the-new-version)

## Upgrade phase

### Restart for catalog upgrade

Restart the nodes one at a time as follows:

```sh
./path_to_new_version/bin/yugabyted stop --upgrade=true \
    --base_dir=~/yugabyte-data/node1
```

```output
Stopped yugabyted using config /net/dev-server-hsunder/share/yugabyte-data/node1/conf/yugabyted.conf.
```

```sh
./path_to_new_version/bin/yugabyted start \
    --base_dir=~/yugabyte-data/node1
```

```output
Starting yugabyted...
✅ Upgrade status successfully verified
✅ YugabyteDB Started
✅ Node joined a running cluster with UUID 5dd3bda3-43a9-48fd-9c16-8399378fed12
✅ UI ready
✅ Data placement constraint successfully verified

+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                               yugabyted                                           |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Status              : Running.                                                                    |
| YSQL Status         : Ready                                                                       |
| Replication Factor  : 3                                                                           |
| YugabyteDB UI       : http://127.0.0.1:15433                                                      |
| JDBC                : jdbc:postgresql://127.0.0.1:5433/yugabyte?user=yugabyte&password=yugabyte   |
| YSQL                : bin/ysqlsh -h 127.0.0.1  -U yugabyte -d yugabyte                            |
| YCQL                : bin/ycqlsh 127.0.0.1 9042 -u cassandra                                      |
| Data Dir            : /net/dev-server-hsunder/share/yugabyte-data/node1/data                      |
| Log Dir             : /net/dev-server-hsunder/share/yugabyte-data/node1/logs                      |
| Universe UUID       : 5dd3bda3-43a9-48fd-9c16-8399378fed12                                        |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

### Upgrade YSQL catalog to the new version

Upgrade the YSQL catalog. You can run this command from any node.

```sh
./path_to_new_version/bin/yugabyted upgrade ysql_catalog \
    --base_dir=~/yugabyte-data/node1
```

```output
✅ YSQL catalog upgrade successful.

+----------------------------------------------------+
|                     yugabyted                      |
+----------------------------------------------------+
| Status        : YSQL catalog upgrade successful.   |
+----------------------------------------------------+
```

### Restart for PostgreSQL upgrade

Restart the nodes again one at a time as follows:

```sh
./path_to_new_version/bin/yugabyted stop --upgrade=true \
    --base_dir=~/yugabyte-data/node1
```

```output
Stopped yugabyted using config /net/dev-server-hsunder/share/yugabyte-data/node1/conf/yugabyted.conf.
```

```sh
./path_to_new_version/bin/yugabyted start \
    --base_dir=~/yugabyte-data/node1 \
    --tserver_flags="ysql_yb_major_version_upgrade_compatibility=11" \
    --master_flags="ysql_yb_major_version_upgrade_compatibility=11"
```

{{< warning title="Enable Mixed Mode" >}}
Restart nodes with the flag `ysql_yb_major_version_upgrade_compatibility=11` so that the universe can function in mixed mode, with both PostgreSQL 15 and (yet to be upgraded) PostgreSQL 11 nodes.
{{< /warning >}}

```output
Starting yugabyted...
✅ Upgrade status successfully verified
✅ YugabyteDB Started
✅ Node joined a running cluster with UUID 5dd3bda3-43a9-48fd-9c16-8399378fed12
✅ UI ready
✅ Data placement constraint successfully verified

+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                               yugabyted                                           |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Status              : Running.                                                                    |
| YSQL Status         : Ready                                                                       |
| Replication Factor  : 3                                                                           |
| YugabyteDB UI       : http://127.0.0.1:15433                                                      |
| JDBC                : jdbc:postgresql://127.0.0.1:5433/yugabyte?user=yugabyte&password=yugabyte   |
| YSQL                : bin/ysqlsh -h 127.0.0.1  -U yugabyte -d yugabyte                            |
| YCQL                : bin/ycqlsh 127.0.0.1 9042 -u cassandra                                      |
| Data Dir            : /net/dev-server-hsunder/share/yugabyte-data/node1/data                      |
| Log Dir             : /net/dev-server-hsunder/share/yugabyte-data/node1/logs                      |
| Universe UUID       : 5dd3bda3-43a9-48fd-9c16-8399378fed12                                        |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

### Disable mixed mode

After all the yugabyted nodes are on the same version, you can disable mixed mode by setting the `ysql_yb_major_version_upgrade_compatibility` flag to `0`. This allows you to re-enable the pushdown optimizations. Run the following on each node.

```sh
./path_to_new_version/bin/yb-ts-cli set_flag --server_address <current-yugabyted-node-advertise-address>:7100 ysql_yb_major_version_upgrade_compatibility 0

./path_to_new_version/bin/yb-ts-cli set_flag --server_address <current-yugabyted-node-advertise-address>:9100 ysql_yb_major_version_upgrade_compatibility 0
```

This does not require a restart.

## Monitor phase

After all the YB-Master and YB-TServer processes are upgraded, monitor the cluster to ensure it is healthy. Make sure workloads are running as expected and there are no errors in the logs.

You can remain in this phase for as long as you need, up to a _maximum recommended limit of two days_ to avoid operator errors that can arise from having to maintain two versions.

DDLs are not allowed even in this phase. New features that require format changes will not be available until the upgrade is finalized. Also, you cannot perform another upgrade until you have completed the current one.

## Finalize phase

After restarting all the nodes, finalize the upgrade by running the `yugabyted finalize_new_version` command. You can run this command from any node.

```sh
./path_to_new_version/bin/yugabyted upgrade finalize_new_version \
    --base_dir=~/yugabyte-data/node1 \
```

## Rollback phase

yugabyted does not currently support rollback.

## Post upgrade phase

- If you are using the cost based optimizer, run ANALYZE after the upgrade. {{<issue 25721>}}

## Limitations

- Expression pushdown is not available. {{<issue 24730>}}
- Upgrading with extensions is not yet supported. {{<issue 24733>}}
- Any backups that are taken in the monitoring phase can only be restored on a PG15 compatible universe (that is, backups cannot be restored if rollback is performed).
