---
title: Get column statistics using pg_stats
linkTitle: Column statistics
headerTitle: Column statistics using pg_stats
headcontent: Improve queries using column level statistics of tables from pg_stats view
menu:
  preview:
    identifier: pg-stats
    parent: query-tuning
    weight: 400
type: docs
---

[pg_stats](../../../architecture/system-catalog#data-statistics) is a system view that provides statistical information about columns in tables. Use it to view data distributions of column values, which can help in query optimization and tuning. These statistics are generated by running the [ANALYZE](../../../api/ysql/the-sql-language/statements/cmd_analyze/) command.

## Key statistics

pg_stats contains information like:

- **null_frac**: Fraction of NULL values in a column.
- **avg_width**: Average width (in bytes) of a column's entries.
- **n_distinct**: Estimated number of distinct values in a column. Positive values are direct counts, while negative values indicate that the distinct count is a fraction of the total row count.
- **most_common_vals**: Most frequently occurring values in a column.
- **most_common_freqs**: Frequencies of the most common values.

Ru  the following example to understand how you can use these statistics to improve queries and the data model.

## Setup

The examples run on any YugabyteDB universe.

<!-- begin: nav tabs -->
{{<nav/tabs list="local,anywhere,cloud" active="local"/>}}

{{<nav/panels>}}
{{<nav/panel name="local" active="true">}}
<!-- local cluster setup instructions -->
{{<setup/local numnodes="1" rf="1" >}}

{{</nav/panel>}}

{{<nav/panel name="anywhere">}} {{<setup/anywhere>}} {{</nav/panel>}}
{{<nav/panel name="cloud">}}{{<setup/cloud>}}{{</nav/panel>}}
{{</nav/panels>}}
<!-- end: nav tabs -->

Create a users table:

```sql
CREATE TABLE users (
    id int,
    name VARCHAR,
    PRIMARY KEY(id)
);
```

Add some data to your table so that you can correlate to it during analysis.

```sql
-- set seed for random to be repeatable
SELECT setseed(0.5); -- to help generate the same random values

-- Insert 10,000 rows into the users table
INSERT INTO users (id, name)
SELECT
    id,
    CASE
        -- 40% NULL names
        WHEN random() < 0.4 THEN NULL
        -- 60% non-null names with skewed distribution
        ELSE (
            CASE
                -- 30% concentration of empty string
                WHEN random() < 0.5 THEN ''
                -- 9 names for the remaining 30%
                ELSE (ARRAY['Sam', 'Kim', 'Pat', 'Lee', 'Morgan',
                            'Taylor', 'Jordan', 'Casey', 'Jamie']
                )[floor(random() * 9 + 1)::int]
            END
        )
    END AS name
FROM generate_series(1, 10000) AS id;
```

Run analyze to gather statistics on the column values of the table as:

```sql
ANALYZE users;
```

Turn ON extended display for better readability as follows:

```sh
@yugabyte=> \x ON
```

## Fetching the statistics

When the ANALYZE command is run, the pg_statistic catalog is populated with the statistics. These stats are made accessible via the pg_stats view. For example, you can view the statistics of the `name` column in the `users` table as follows:

```sql
SELECT attname, null_frac, n_distinct, most_common_vals, most_common_freqs
    FROM pg_stats
    WHERE tablename='users' AND attname='name';
```

You should get an output similar to:

```caddyfile{.nocopy}
-[ RECORD 1 ]-----+------------------------------------------------------------------------
attname           | name
null_frac         | 0.4042
n_distinct        | 10
most_common_vals  | {"",Jordan,Jamie,Morgan,Taylor,Kim,Pat,Casey,Sam,Lee}
most_common_freqs | {0.2963,0.0352,0.0346,0.0342,0.0339,0.0334,0.0333,0.0328,0.0313,0.0308}
```

The preceding output shows the following:

- **null_frac** shows that the fraction of null values is about 40%. (Recall that you tried to insert about 40% NULL values.)
- **n_distinct** shows that there are about 10 distinct values in the name column.
- **most_common_vals** shows the most commonly occurring values (other than NULL).
- **most_common_freqs** shows the frequency with which the most common values occur. For example, Empty value occurs at 29.6%, John occurs at 3.0%, and so on.

## Partial indexes

If you were to try to create an index on the column `name`, the index could be unevenly distributed. This is because 40% of the dataset consists of NULL values, and 30% consists of empty values, with only 30% being valid values. If you know that your queries will not look up NULL or empty values, you can create a partial index as follows:

```sql
CREATE INDEX idx_users_name_nonempty
    ON users (name)
    WHERE name IS NOT NULL AND name <> '';
```

This index will include only the valid values and as a result won't be skewed.

## Cardinality

Given that there are only 9 distinct valid (without empty string) values (via **n_distinct**) in the `name` column, on an index with HASH distribution, even if there are more nodes in the cluster, the index will end up being only on a maximum of 9 nodes. This is because each value is hashed to determine the tablet in which it should be stored and there will be only 9 distinct hashes. This is why you shouldn't create indexes on low cardinality columns like Booleans (2), Days of week (7), and so on.

## Skewed data

Ideally, your index/table should be reasonably distributed so that all nodes in the cluster handle a reasonably equal share of queries. Using pg_stats, you can quickly determine that together NULL and empty values account for 70% of the total data set (via **most_common_vals, null_frac**), while valid names only 30% of the dataset. If an index was created will all these values then all queries to the index will be handled only by about 30% of the nodes in the cluster as 70% of data would not be queried against.
