docs/content/v2024.2/deploy/kubernetes/single-zone/oss/helm-chart.md, before:

---
title: Deploy on OSS Kubernetes using Helm Chart
headerTitle: Open source Kubernetes
linkTitle: Open source Kubernetes
description: Deploy a YugabyteDB cluster on OSS Kubernetes using Helm Chart.
menu:
  v2024.2:
    parent: deploy-kubernetes-sz
    name: Open Source
    identifier: k8s-oss-1
    weight: 621
type: docs
---

<ul class="nav nav-tabs-alt nav-tabs-yb">
  <li >
    <a href="../helm-chart/" class="nav-link active">
      <i class="fa-regular fa-dharmachakra" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      Helm chart
    </a>
  </li>
  <li >
    <a href="../yugabyte-operator/" class="nav-link">
      <i class="fa-solid fa-cubes" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      Kubernetes Operator
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

[Helm](https://helm.sh/) is an open source packaging tool that helps install applications and services on Kubernetes. It uses a packaging format called `charts`. A Helm chart is a package containing all resource definitions necessary to create an instance of a Kubernetes application, tool, or service in a Kubernetes cluster.

## Prerequisites

You must have a Kubernetes cluster that has Helm configured. If you have not installed the Helm client (`helm`), see [Install Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/).

The YugabyteDB Helm chart has been tested with the following software versions:

- Kubernetes 1.20 or later with nodes such that a total of 12 CPU cores and 18 GB RAM can be allocated to YugabyteDB. This can be three nodes with 4 CPU core and 6 GB RAM allocated to YugabyteDB.
- Helm 3.4 or later.
- YugabyteDB Docker image (yugabytedb/yugabyte) 2.1.0 or later
- For optimal performance, ensure you have set the appropriate [system configuration](../../../../manual-deployment/system-config/) on each node in your Kubernetes cluster.

Confirm that `helm` and `kubectl` are configured correctly, as follows:

```sh
helm version
```

```output
version.BuildInfo{Version:"v3.2.1", GitCommit:"fe51cd1e31e6a202cba7dead9552a6d418ded79a", GitTreeState:"clean", GoVersion:"go1.13.10"}
```

```sh
kubectl version
```

## Create cluster

Creating a cluster includes adding a repository for charts and updating this repository, checking the version, and installing YugabyteDB.

### Add charts repository

To add the YugabyteDB charts repository, run the following command:

```sh
helm repo add yugabytedb https://charts.yugabyte.com
```

### Fetch updates from the repository

Make sure that you have the latest updates to the repository by running the following command:

```sh
helm repo update
```

### Validate the chart version

To check the chart version, run the following command:

```sh
helm search repo yugabytedb/yugabyte --version {{<yb-version version="v2024.2" format="short">}}
```

Expect output similar to the following:

```output
NAME                 CHART VERSION  APP VERSION   DESCRIPTION
yugabytedb/yugabyte  {{<yb-version version="v2024.2" format="short">}}          {{<yb-version version="v2024.2" format="build">}}  YugabyteDB is the high-performance distributed ...
```

### Install YugabyteDB

Install YugabyteDB in the Kubernetes cluster using the commands described in the following sections.

#### On multi-node Kubernetes

Create a namespace and then install YugabyteDB, as follows:

```sh
kubectl create namespace yb-demo

helm install yb-demo yugabytedb/yugabyte --version {{<yb-version version="v2024.2" format="short">}} --namespace yb-demo --wait
```

#### On Minikube

If you are running in a resource-constrained environment or a local environment, such as Minikube, you have to change the default resource requirements.

Create a `yb-demo` namespace, as follows:

```sh
kubectl create namespace yb-demo

helm install yb-demo yugabytedb/yugabyte \
--version {{<yb-version version="v2024.2" format="short">}} \
--set resource.master.requests.cpu=0.5,resource.master.requests.memory=0.5Gi,\
resource.tserver.requests.cpu=0.5,resource.tserver.requests.memory=0.5Gi --namespace yb-demo
```

Note that in Minikube, the LoadBalancers for `yb-master-ui` and `yb-tserver-service` will remain in pending state as load balancers are not available in a Minikube environment. If you would like to disable these services, pass the `enableLoadBalancer=False` flag, as follows:

```sh
helm install yb-demo yugabytedb/yugabyte \
--version {{<yb-version version="v2024.2" format="short">}} \
--set resource.master.requests.cpu=0.5,resource.master.requests.memory=0.5Gi,\
resource.tserver.requests.cpu=0.5,resource.tserver.requests.memory=0.5Gi,\
enableLoadBalancer=False --namespace yb-demo
```

In some environments, such as macOS, Minikube may run inside a virtual machine. Make sure to configure the VM with at least 4 CPUs and 5 GB memory so the cluster has room to start up. The following is an example command:

```sh
minikube start --cpus 4 --memory 5120
```

## Check the cluster status

You can check the status of the cluster using the following commands:

```sh
helm status yb-demo -n yb-demo
```

Expect output similar to the following:

```output
NAME: yb-demo
LAST DEPLOYED: Thu Feb 13 13:29:13 2020
NAMESPACE: yb-demo
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
TEST SUITE: None
NOTES:
1. Get YugabyteDB Pods by running this command:
  kubectl --namespace yb-demo get pods

2. Get list of YugabyteDB services that are running:
  kubectl --namespace yb-demo get services

3. Get information about the load balancer services:
  kubectl get svc --namespace yb-demo

4. Connect to one of the tablet server:
  kubectl exec --namespace yb-demo -it yb-tserver-0 -- bash

5. Run YSQL shell from inside of a tablet server:
  kubectl exec --namespace yb-demo -it yb-tserver-0 -- ysqlsh  -h yb-tserver-0.yb-tservers.yb-demo

6. Cleanup YugabyteDB Pods
  helm delete yb-demo --purge
  NOTE: You need to manually delete the persistent volume
  kubectl delete pvc --namespace yb-demo -l app=yb-master
  kubectl delete pvc --namespace yb-demo -l app=yb-tserver
```

Check the pods, as follows:

```sh
kubectl get pods --namespace yb-demo
```

Expect output similar to the following:

```output
NAME           READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
yb-master-0    2/2       Running   0          4m
yb-master-1    2/2       Running   0          4m
yb-master-2    2/2       Running   0          4m
yb-tserver-0   2/2       Running   0          4m
yb-tserver-1   2/2       Running   0          4m
yb-tserver-2   2/2       Running   0          4m
```

Check the services, as follows:

```sh
kubectl get services --namespace yb-demo
```

Expect output similar to the following:

```output
NAME                 TYPE           CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP    PORT(S)                                        AGE
yb-master-ui         LoadBalancer   10.109.39.242   35.225.153.213 7000:31920/TCP                                 10s
yb-masters           ClusterIP      None            <none>         7100/TCP,7000/TCP                              10s
yb-tserver-service   LoadBalancer   10.98.36.163    35.225.153.214 6379:30929/TCP,9042:30975/TCP,5433:30048/TCP   10s
yb-tservers          ClusterIP      None            <none>         7100/TCP,9000/TCP,6379/TCP,9042/TCP,5433/TCP   10s
```

You can also check the history of the `yb-demo` deployment, as follows:

```sh
helm history yb-demo -n yb-demo
```

Expect output similar to the following:

```output
REVISION  UPDATED                   STATUS    CHART           APP VERSION   DESCRIPTION
1         Thu Apr 13 13:29:13 2020  deployed  yugabyte-2.13.0  2.13.0.1-b2  Install complete
```

## Connect using YugabyteDB shells

To connect and use the YSQL Shell (`ysqlsh`), run the following command:

```sh
kubectl exec -n yb-demo -it yb-tserver-0 -- ysqlsh -h yb-tserver-0.yb-tservers.yb-demo
```

To connect and use the YCQL Shell (`ycqlsh`), run the following command:

```sh
kubectl exec -n yb-demo -it yb-tserver-0 -- ycqlsh yb-tserver-0.yb-tservers.yb-demo
```

## Connect using external clients

To connect an external program, get the load balancer `EXTERNAL-IP` address of the `yb-tserver-service` service and connect using port 5433 for YSQL or port 9042 for YCQL, as follows:

```sh
kubectl get services --namespace yb-demo
```

Expect output similar to the following:

```output
NAME                 TYPE           CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP        PORT(S)                                        AGE
...
yb-tserver-service   LoadBalancer   10.98.36.163    35.225.153.214     6379:30929/TCP,9042:30975/TCP,5433:30048/TCP   10s
...
```

## Configure cluster

Instead of using the default values in the Helm chart, you can modify the configuration of the YugabyteDB cluster according to your requirements.

### CPU, memory, and replica count

The default values for the Helm chart are in the `helm/yugabyte/values.yaml` file. The following is a listing of the most important values. As noted in [Prerequisites](#prerequisites), the defaults are set for a 3-node Kubernetes cluster, each node with 4 CPU cores and 6 GB RAM allocated to YugabyteDB.

```yaml
storage:
  master:
    count: 2
    size: 10Gi
    storageClass: standard
  tserver:
    count: 2
    size: 10Gi
    storageClass: standard

resource:
  master:
    requests:
      cpu: 2
      memory: 2Gi
    limits:
      cpu: 2
      memory: 2Gi
  tserver:
    requests:
      cpu: 2
      memory: 4Gi
    limits:
      cpu: 2
      memory: 4Gi

replicas:
  master: 3
  tserver: 3

partition:
  master: 3
  tserver: 3
```

If you want to change the defaults, you can use the following command. You can even do `helm install` instead of `helm upgrade` when you are installing on a Kubernetes cluster with configuration different than the defaults:

```sh
helm upgrade --set resource.tserver.requests.cpu=8,resource.tserver.requests.memory=15Gi yb-demo ./yugabyte
```

Replica count can be changed using the following command. Note that only the YB-TServers need to be scaled in a replication factor 3 cluster which keeps the masters count at `3`:

```sh
helm upgrade --set replicas.tserver=5 yb-demo ./yugabyte
```

### Readiness probes

Readiness probes provide readiness checks for your Kubernetes deployment. Probes are compatible with both direct Helm deployments and [YugabyteDB Anywhere-managed deployments](../../../../../yugabyte-platform/create-deployments/create-universe-multi-zone-kubernetes/#helm-overrides), and work with TLS enabled or restricted authorization environments. Use the probes to ensure pods are ready before being marked as available. The probes verify connectivity using ysqlsh for YSQL and ycqlsh for YCQL.

The following probes are available:

- YSQL Readiness. Uses ysqlsh to verify connectivity via local socket for credentialed setups.

- YCQL Readiness. Uses ycqlsh to validate connectivity.

- Master Readiness. Uses `httpGet` to probe master.

- Custom Readiness. Supports custom readiness probe parameters, such as delays, timeouts, and thresholds.

- Startup probes to delay enforcing of readiness probes.

Readiness probes are disabled by default for compatibility.

Enable probes via `values.yaml` or using Kubernetes overrides.

```yaml
master:
  readinessProbe:
    enabled: true

tserver:
  readinessProbe:
    enabled: true
```

The following is example of custom readiness parameters:

```yaml
tserver:
  customReadinessProbe:
    initialDelaySeconds: 30
    periodSeconds: 20
    timeoutSeconds: 10
```

### Independent LoadBalancers

By default, the YugabyteDB Helm chart exposes the client API endpoints and master UI endpoint using two load balancers. If you want to expose the client APIs using independent LoadBalancers, you can execute the following command:

```sh
helm install yb-demo yugabytedb/yugabyte -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/yugabyte/charts/master/v2024.2/yugabyte/expose-all.yaml --version {{<yb-version version="v2024.2" format="short">}} --namespace yb-demo --wait
```

You can also bring up an internal load balancer (for either YB-Master or YB-TServer services), if required. To do so, you specify the [annotation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#internal-load-balancer) required for your cloud provider. See [Amazon EKS](../../eks/helm-chart/) and [Google Kubernetes Engine](../../gke/helm-chart/) for examples.

### Reserved LoadBalancer IP Addresses

If you intend to use a preallocated (reserved) IP for the exposed YB-Master and YB-TServer services, you need to specify the load balancer IP. If you do not set this IP, a so-called ephemeral, semi-random IP will be allocated.

The following is an example of the `values-overrides.yaml` file that allows you to override IP values in the Helm charts:

```properties
serviceEndpoints:
  - name: "yb-master-ui"
    app: "yb-master"
    loadBalancerIP: "11.11.11.11"
    type: "LoadBalancer"
    ports:
      http-ui: "7000"
  - name: "yb-tserver-service"
    app: "yb-tserver"
    loadBalancerIP: "22.22.22.22"
    type: "LoadBalancer"
    ports:
      tcp-yql-port: "9042"
      tcp-ysql-port: "5433"
```

You apply the override by executing the following Helm command:

```sh
helm install yb-demo ./yugabyte -f values-overrides.yaml
```

Assuming that you already reserved the IP addresses (11.11.11.11 and 22.22.22.22), `yb-master-ui` and `yb-tserver-service` will use the predetermined addresses.

Note that setting the load balancer IP can result in behavior that might not be entirely consistent across cloud providers.

### Storage class

If you want to use a storage class other than the standard class for your deployment, provision the storage class and then pass in the name of the class while running the helm install command, as follows:

```sh
helm install yugabyte --version {{<yb-version version="v2024.2" format="short">}} --namespace yb-demo --name yb-demo --set storage.master.storageClass=<desired storage class>,storage.tserver.storageClass=<desired storage class> --wait
```

### Configure YB-Master and YB-TServer pods

Flags on the YB-Master and YB-TServer pods can be specified via the command line or by overriding the `values.yaml` file in the charts repository. The following example shows how to set the three geo-distribution-related flags `placement_cloud`, `placement_region`, and `placement_zone` on a Minikube cluster:

```sh
helm install yb-demo yugabytedb/yugabyte \
--version {{<yb-version version="v2024.2" format="short">}} \
--set resource.master.requests.cpu=0.5,resource.master.requests.memory=0.5Gi,\
resource.tserver.requests.cpu=0.5,resource.tserver.requests.memory=0.5Gi,\
gflags.master.placement_cloud=myk8s-cloud,gflags.master.placement_region=myk8s-region,gflags.master.placement_zone=myk8s-zone,\
gflags.tserver.placement_cloud=myk8s-cloud,gflags.tserver.placement_region=myk8s-region,gflags.tserver.placement_zone=myk8s-zone\
 --namespace yb-demo
```

## Upgrade the software version of YugabyteDB

You can upgrade the software on the YugabyteDB cluster with the following command. By default, this performs a [rolling update](https://github.com/yugabyte/charts/blob/853d7ac744cf6d637b5877f4681940825beda8f6/v2024.2/yugabyte/values.yaml#L60) of the pods.

```sh
helm repo update
helm upgrade yb-demo yugabytedb/yugabyte --version {{<yb-version version="v2024.2" format="short">}} --wait -n yb-demo
```

Then finalize the upgrade as follows:

```sh
kubectl exec -it yb-master-0 -- /home/yugabyte/bin/yb-admin --master_addresses yb-master-0.yb-masters.default.svc.cluster.local:7100 promote_auto_flags
kubectl exec -it yb-master-0 -- /home/yugabyte/bin/yb-admin --master_addresses yb-master-0.yb-masters.default.svc.cluster.local:7100 upgrade_ysql
```

The `upgrade_ysql` command is only needed if YSQL is enabled. Note that `promote_auto_flags` and `upgrade_ysql` are cluster-level operations; you don't need to run them on every node.

## Update the configuration of YugabyteDB pods

You can update most settings in the helm chart by running a `helm upgrade` with the new values. By default, this performs a [rolling update](https://github.com/yugabyte/charts/blob/853d7ac744cf6d637b5877f4681940825beda8f6/v2024.2/yugabyte/values.yaml#L60) of the pods.

```sh
helm upgrade yb-demo yugabytedb/yugabyte --set resource.tserver.requests.cpu=4 --wait -n yb-demo
```

## Delete cluster

To delete the cluster, you need to purge the Helm chart, and then delete the PVCs, as follows:

```sh
helm uninstall yb-demo -n yb-demo
```

```sh
kubectl delete pvc --namespace yb-demo --all
```

Commit message:

[PLAT-9359] [doc-yba]  The flag default_memory_limit_to_ram_ratio doesn't correctly work on k8s universes (#29978)
* added changes to stable

* edits

* cli clarification

* Copy changes to prev versions

* updated changes

* suggesstions from review

---------

Co-authored-by: Dwight Hodge <ghodge@yugabyte.com>

docs/content/v2024.2/deploy/kubernetes/single-zone/oss/helm-chart.md, after:

---
title: Deploy on OSS Kubernetes using Helm Chart
headerTitle: Open source Kubernetes
linkTitle: Open source Kubernetes
description: Deploy a YugabyteDB cluster on OSS Kubernetes using Helm Chart.
menu:
  v2024.2:
    parent: deploy-kubernetes-sz
    name: Open Source
    identifier: k8s-oss-1
    weight: 621
type: docs
---

<ul class="nav nav-tabs-alt nav-tabs-yb">
  <li >
    <a href="../helm-chart/" class="nav-link active">
      <i class="fa-regular fa-dharmachakra" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      Helm chart
    </a>
  </li>
  <li >
    <a href="../yugabyte-operator/" class="nav-link">
      <i class="fa-solid fa-cubes" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      Kubernetes Operator
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

[Helm](https://helm.sh/) is an open source packaging tool that helps install applications and services on Kubernetes. It uses a packaging format called `charts`. A Helm chart is a package containing all resource definitions necessary to create an instance of a Kubernetes application, tool, or service in a Kubernetes cluster.

## Prerequisites

You must have a Kubernetes cluster that has Helm configured. If you have not installed the Helm client (`helm`), see [Install Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/).

The YugabyteDB Helm chart has been tested with the following software versions:

- Kubernetes 1.20 or later with nodes such that a total of 12 CPU cores and 18 GB RAM can be allocated to YugabyteDB. This can be three nodes with 4 CPU core and 6 GB RAM allocated to YugabyteDB.
- Helm 3.4 or later.
- YugabyteDB Docker image (yugabytedb/yugabyte) 2.1.0 or later
- For optimal performance, ensure you have set the appropriate [system configuration](../../../../manual-deployment/system-config/) on each node in your Kubernetes cluster.

Confirm that `helm` and `kubectl` are configured correctly, as follows:

```sh
helm version
```

```output
version.BuildInfo{Version:"v3.2.1", GitCommit:"fe51cd1e31e6a202cba7dead9552a6d418ded79a", GitTreeState:"clean", GoVersion:"go1.13.10"}
```

```sh
kubectl version
```

## Create cluster

Creating a cluster includes adding a repository for charts and updating this repository, checking the version, and installing YugabyteDB.

### Add charts repository

To add the YugabyteDB charts repository, run the following command:

```sh
helm repo add yugabytedb https://charts.yugabyte.com
```

### Fetch updates from the repository

Make sure that you have the latest updates to the repository by running the following command:

```sh
helm repo update
```

### Validate the chart version

To check the chart version, run the following command:

```sh
helm search repo yugabytedb/yugabyte --version {{<yb-version version="v2024.2" format="short">}}
```

Expect output similar to the following:

```output
NAME                 CHART VERSION  APP VERSION   DESCRIPTION
yugabytedb/yugabyte  {{<yb-version version="v2024.2" format="short">}}          {{<yb-version version="v2024.2" format="build">}}  YugabyteDB is the high-performance distributed ...
```

### Install YugabyteDB

Install YugabyteDB in the Kubernetes cluster using the commands described in the following sections.

#### On multi-node Kubernetes

Create a namespace and then install YugabyteDB, as follows:

```sh
kubectl create namespace yb-demo

helm install yb-demo yugabytedb/yugabyte --version {{<yb-version version="v2024.2" format="short">}} --namespace yb-demo --wait
```

#### On Minikube

If you are running in a resource-constrained environment or a local environment, such as Minikube, you have to change the default resource requirements.

Create a `yb-demo` namespace, as follows:

```sh
kubectl create namespace yb-demo

helm install yb-demo yugabytedb/yugabyte \
--version {{<yb-version version="v2024.2" format="short">}} \
--set resource.master.requests.cpu=0.5,resource.master.requests.memory=0.5Gi,\
resource.tserver.requests.cpu=0.5,resource.tserver.requests.memory=0.5Gi --namespace yb-demo
```

Note that in Minikube, the LoadBalancers for `yb-master-ui` and `yb-tserver-service` will remain in pending state as load balancers are not available in a Minikube environment. If you would like to disable these services, pass the `enableLoadBalancer=False` flag, as follows:

```sh
helm install yb-demo yugabytedb/yugabyte \
--version {{<yb-version version="v2024.2" format="short">}} \
--set resource.master.requests.cpu=0.5,resource.master.requests.memory=0.5Gi,\
resource.tserver.requests.cpu=0.5,resource.tserver.requests.memory=0.5Gi,\
enableLoadBalancer=False --namespace yb-demo
```

In some environments, such as macOS, Minikube may run inside a virtual machine. Make sure to configure the VM with at least 4 CPUs and 5 GB memory so the cluster has room to start up. The following is an example command:

```sh
minikube start --cpus 4 --memory 5120
```

## Check the cluster status

You can check the status of the cluster using the following commands:

```sh
helm status yb-demo -n yb-demo
```

Expect output similar to the following:

```output
NAME: yb-demo
LAST DEPLOYED: Thu Feb 13 13:29:13 2020
NAMESPACE: yb-demo
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
TEST SUITE: None
NOTES:
1. Get YugabyteDB Pods by running this command:
  kubectl --namespace yb-demo get pods

2. Get list of YugabyteDB services that are running:
  kubectl --namespace yb-demo get services

3. Get information about the load balancer services:
  kubectl get svc --namespace yb-demo

4. Connect to one of the tablet server:
  kubectl exec --namespace yb-demo -it yb-tserver-0 -- bash

5. Run YSQL shell from inside of a tablet server:
  kubectl exec --namespace yb-demo -it yb-tserver-0 -- ysqlsh  -h yb-tserver-0.yb-tservers.yb-demo

6. Cleanup YugabyteDB Pods
  helm delete yb-demo --purge
  NOTE: You need to manually delete the persistent volume
  kubectl delete pvc --namespace yb-demo -l app=yb-master
  kubectl delete pvc --namespace yb-demo -l app=yb-tserver
```

Check the pods, as follows:

```sh
kubectl get pods --namespace yb-demo
```

Expect output similar to the following:

```output
NAME           READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
yb-master-0    2/2       Running   0          4m
yb-master-1    2/2       Running   0          4m
yb-master-2    2/2       Running   0          4m
yb-tserver-0   2/2       Running   0          4m
yb-tserver-1   2/2       Running   0          4m
yb-tserver-2   2/2       Running   0          4m
```

Check the services, as follows:

```sh
kubectl get services --namespace yb-demo
```

Expect output similar to the following:

```output
NAME                 TYPE           CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP    PORT(S)                                        AGE
yb-master-ui         LoadBalancer   10.109.39.242   35.225.153.213 7000:31920/TCP                                 10s
yb-masters           ClusterIP      None            <none>         7100/TCP,7000/TCP                              10s
yb-tserver-service   LoadBalancer   10.98.36.163    35.225.153.214 6379:30929/TCP,9042:30975/TCP,5433:30048/TCP   10s
yb-tservers          ClusterIP      None            <none>         7100/TCP,9000/TCP,6379/TCP,9042/TCP,5433/TCP   10s
```

You can also check the history of the `yb-demo` deployment, as follows:

```sh
helm history yb-demo -n yb-demo
```

Expect output similar to the following:

```output
REVISION  UPDATED                   STATUS    CHART           APP VERSION   DESCRIPTION
1         Thu Apr 13 13:29:13 2020  deployed  yugabyte-2.13.0  2.13.0.1-b2  Install complete
```

## Connect using YugabyteDB shells

To connect and use the YSQL Shell (`ysqlsh`), run the following command:

```sh
kubectl exec -n yb-demo -it yb-tserver-0 -- ysqlsh -h yb-tserver-0.yb-tservers.yb-demo
```

To connect and use the YCQL Shell (`ycqlsh`), run the following command:

```sh
kubectl exec -n yb-demo -it yb-tserver-0 -- ycqlsh yb-tserver-0.yb-tservers.yb-demo
```

## Connect using external clients

To connect an external program, get the load balancer `EXTERNAL-IP` address of the `yb-tserver-service` service and connect using port 5433 for YSQL or port 9042 for YCQL, as follows:

```sh
kubectl get services --namespace yb-demo
```

Expect output similar to the following:

```output
NAME                 TYPE           CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP        PORT(S)                                        AGE
...
yb-tserver-service   LoadBalancer   10.98.36.163    35.225.153.214     6379:30929/TCP,9042:30975/TCP,5433:30048/TCP   10s
...
```

## Configure cluster

Instead of using the default values in the Helm chart, you can modify the configuration of the YugabyteDB cluster according to your requirements.

### CPU, memory, and replica count

The default values for the Helm chart are in the `helm/yugabyte/values.yaml` file. The following is a listing of the most important values. As noted in [Prerequisites](#prerequisites), the defaults are set for a 3-node Kubernetes cluster, each node with 4 CPU cores and 6 GB RAM allocated to YugabyteDB.

```yaml
storage:
  master:
    count: 2
    size: 10Gi
    storageClass: standard
  tserver:
    count: 2
    size: 10Gi
    storageClass: standard

resource:
  master:
    requests:
      cpu: 2
      memory: 2Gi
    limits:
      cpu: 2
      memory: 2Gi
  tserver:
    requests:
      cpu: 2
      memory: 4Gi
    limits:
      cpu: 2
      memory: 4Gi

replicas:
  master: 3
  tserver: 3

partition:
  master: 3
  tserver: 3
```

If you want to change the defaults, use the `helm upgrade --set` command; or, if you are installing on a Kubernetes cluster with a configuration different than the defaults, you can use `helm install` instead of `helm upgrade`.

For example, to change the TServer resource:

```sh
helm upgrade --set resource.tserver.requests.cpu=8,resource.tserver.requests.memory=15Gi yb-demo ./yugabyte
```

To change replica count:

```sh
helm upgrade --set replicas.tserver=5 yb-demo ./yugabyte
```

Note that only the YB-TServers need to be scaled in a replication factor 3 cluster, which keeps the masters count at 3.

#### Memory limits for Kubernetes deployments

For Kubernetes deployments, memory limits are controlled via Kubernetes resource specifications in the Helm chart (the `resource.master.limits.memory` and `resource.tserver.limits.memory` values).

The Helm chart automatically converts these Kubernetes pod memory limits to the `--memory_limit_hard_bytes` command-line flag, which is passed to the YugabyteDB processes (yb-tserver and yb-master) when the pods start. The [--default_memory_limit_to_ram_ratio](../../../../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#default-memory-limit-to-ram-ratio) flag does not apply to Kubernetes universes because memory resources are specified natively in the Kubernetes YAML rather than as a percentage of system RAM.

For example, if you set `resource.tserver.limits.memory: 4Gi` in your Helm chart, the Helm chart automatically converts this to bytes and sets `--memory_limit_hard_bytes=4294967296` as a command-line argument when starting the TServer pods.

### Readiness probes

Readiness probes provide readiness checks for your Kubernetes deployment. Probes are compatible with both direct Helm deployments and [YugabyteDB Anywhere-managed deployments](../../../../../yugabyte-platform/create-deployments/create-universe-multi-zone-kubernetes/#helm-overrides), and work with TLS enabled or restricted authorization environments. Use the probes to ensure pods are ready before being marked as available. The probes verify connectivity using ysqlsh for YSQL and ycqlsh for YCQL.

The following probes are available:

- YSQL Readiness. Uses ysqlsh to verify connectivity via local socket for credentialed setups.

- YCQL Readiness. Uses ycqlsh to validate connectivity.

- Master Readiness. Uses `httpGet` to probe master.

- Custom Readiness. Supports custom readiness probe parameters, such as delays, timeouts, and thresholds.

- Startup probes to delay enforcing of readiness probes.

Readiness probes are disabled by default for compatibility.

Enable probes via `values.yaml` or using Kubernetes overrides.

```yaml
master:
  readinessProbe:
    enabled: true

tserver:
  readinessProbe:
    enabled: true
```

The following is example of custom readiness parameters:

```yaml
tserver:
  customReadinessProbe:
    initialDelaySeconds: 30
    periodSeconds: 20
    timeoutSeconds: 10
```

### Independent LoadBalancers

By default, the YugabyteDB Helm chart exposes the client API endpoints and master UI endpoint using two load balancers. If you want to expose the client APIs using independent LoadBalancers, you can execute the following command:

```sh
helm install yb-demo yugabytedb/yugabyte -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/yugabyte/charts/master/v2024.2/yugabyte/expose-all.yaml --version {{<yb-version version="v2024.2" format="short">}} --namespace yb-demo --wait
```

You can also bring up an internal load balancer (for either YB-Master or YB-TServer services), if required. To do so, you specify the [annotation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#internal-load-balancer) required for your cloud provider. See [Amazon EKS](../../eks/helm-chart/) and [Google Kubernetes Engine](../../gke/helm-chart/) for examples.

### Reserved LoadBalancer IP Addresses

If you intend to use a preallocated (reserved) IP for the exposed YB-Master and YB-TServer services, you need to specify the load balancer IP. If you do not set this IP, a so-called ephemeral, semi-random IP will be allocated.

The following is an example of the `values-overrides.yaml` file that allows you to override IP values in the Helm charts:

```properties
serviceEndpoints:
  - name: "yb-master-ui"
    app: "yb-master"
    loadBalancerIP: "11.11.11.11"
    type: "LoadBalancer"
    ports:
      http-ui: "7000"
  - name: "yb-tserver-service"
    app: "yb-tserver"
    loadBalancerIP: "22.22.22.22"
    type: "LoadBalancer"
    ports:
      tcp-yql-port: "9042"
      tcp-ysql-port: "5433"
```

You apply the override by executing the following Helm command:

```sh
helm install yb-demo ./yugabyte -f values-overrides.yaml
```

Assuming that you already reserved the IP addresses (11.11.11.11 and 22.22.22.22), `yb-master-ui` and `yb-tserver-service` will use the predetermined addresses.

Note that setting the load balancer IP can result in behavior that might not be entirely consistent across cloud providers.

### Storage class

If you want to use a storage class other than the standard class for your deployment, provision the storage class and then pass in the name of the class while running the helm install command, as follows:

```sh
helm install yugabyte --version {{<yb-version version="v2024.2" format="short">}} --namespace yb-demo --name yb-demo --set storage.master.storageClass=<desired storage class>,storage.tserver.storageClass=<desired storage class> --wait
```

### Configure YB-Master and YB-TServer pods

Flags on the YB-Master and YB-TServer pods can be specified via the command line or by overriding the `values.yaml` file in the charts repository. The following example shows how to set the three geo-distribution-related flags `placement_cloud`, `placement_region`, and `placement_zone` on a Minikube cluster:

```sh
helm install yb-demo yugabytedb/yugabyte \
--version {{<yb-version version="v2024.2" format="short">}} \
--set resource.master.requests.cpu=0.5,resource.master.requests.memory=0.5Gi,\
resource.tserver.requests.cpu=0.5,resource.tserver.requests.memory=0.5Gi,\
gflags.master.placement_cloud=myk8s-cloud,gflags.master.placement_region=myk8s-region,gflags.master.placement_zone=myk8s-zone,\
gflags.tserver.placement_cloud=myk8s-cloud,gflags.tserver.placement_region=myk8s-region,gflags.tserver.placement_zone=myk8s-zone\
 --namespace yb-demo
```

## Upgrade the software version of YugabyteDB

You can upgrade the software on the YugabyteDB cluster with the following command. By default, this performs a [rolling update](https://github.com/yugabyte/charts/blob/853d7ac744cf6d637b5877f4681940825beda8f6/v2024.2/yugabyte/values.yaml#L60) of the pods.

```sh
helm repo update
helm upgrade yb-demo yugabytedb/yugabyte --version {{<yb-version version="v2024.2" format="short">}} --wait -n yb-demo
```

Then finalize the upgrade as follows:

```sh
kubectl exec -it yb-master-0 -- /home/yugabyte/bin/yb-admin --master_addresses yb-master-0.yb-masters.default.svc.cluster.local:7100 promote_auto_flags
kubectl exec -it yb-master-0 -- /home/yugabyte/bin/yb-admin --master_addresses yb-master-0.yb-masters.default.svc.cluster.local:7100 upgrade_ysql
```

The `upgrade_ysql` command is only needed if YSQL is enabled. Note that `promote_auto_flags` and `upgrade_ysql` are cluster-level operations; you don't need to run them on every node.

## Update the configuration of YugabyteDB pods

You can update most settings in the helm chart by running a `helm upgrade` with the new values. By default, this performs a [rolling update](https://github.com/yugabyte/charts/blob/853d7ac744cf6d637b5877f4681940825beda8f6/v2024.2/yugabyte/values.yaml#L60) of the pods.

```sh
helm upgrade yb-demo yugabytedb/yugabyte --set resource.tserver.requests.cpu=4 --wait -n yb-demo
```

## Delete cluster

To delete the cluster, you need to purge the Helm chart, and then delete the PVCs, as follows:

```sh
helm uninstall yb-demo -n yb-demo
```

```sh
kubectl delete pvc --namespace yb-demo --all
```
