docs/content/preview/yugabyte-voyager/reference/bulk-data-load/import-data-file.md, before:

---
title: import data file reference
headcontent: yb-voyager import data file
linkTitle: import data file
description: YugabyteDB Voyager import data file reference
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-voyager:
    identifier: voyager-import-data-file
    parent: bulk-data-load-ref
    weight: 70
type: docs
---

Load data from files in CSV or text format directly to the YugabyteDB database. These data files can be located either on a local filesystem, an AWS S3 bucket, GCS bucket, or an Azure blob. For more details, see [Bulk data load from files](../../../migrate/bulk-data-load/).

## Syntax

```text
Usage: yb-voyager import data file [ <arguments> ... ]
```

### Arguments

The valid *arguments* for import data file are described in the following table:

| Argument | Description/valid options |
| :--- | :---- |
| --batch-size | Size of batches in the number of rows generated for ingestion during import data. <br> Default: 20000 rows |
| --data-dir | Path to the location of the data files to import; this can be a local directory or a URL for a cloud storage location such as an AWS S3 bucket, GCS bucket, or an Azure blob. For more details, see [Bulk data load from files](../../../migrate/bulk-data-load/).|
| --delimiter | Character used as a delimiter to separate column values in rows of the datafile(s). <br> Default: comma `','` for CSV file format and tab `'\t'` for TEXT file format.<br>Example: `yb-voyager import data file .... --delimiter ','` |
| --disable-pb |Use this argument to disable progress bar or statistics during data import. <br>Default: false<br> Accepted parameters: true, false, yes, no, 0, 1|
| --enable-upsert | Enable UPSERT mode on target tables while importing data. <br>Default: true<br> Usage for disabling the mode: `yb-voyager import data status ... --enable-upsert false` |
| --escape-char | Escape character <br> Default: double quotes `'"'`<br>Example: `yb-voyager import data file ... --escape-char '"'` |
| --file-opts | **[Deprecated]** Comma-separated string options for CSV file format. <br>Options:<ul><li>`escape_char` - escape character</li><li>`quote_char` - character used to quote the values</li></ul>Default: double quotes (") for both escape and quote characters<br>**Note** that escape_char and quote_char are only valid and required for CSV file format.<br>Example: `--file-opts "escape_char \",quote_char \""` or `--file-opts 'escape_char ",quote_char "'` |
| --null-string | String that represents null values in the datafile. <br> Default: `""` (empty string) for CSV, and `'\N'` for text.<br>Example: `yb-voyager import data file ... --null-string 'NULL'` |
| --file-table-map | Comma-separated mapping between the files in `--data-dir` argument to the corresponding table in the database. You can import multiple files in one table either by providing one `<fileName>:<tableName>` entry for each file OR by passing a glob expression in place of the file name.<br>Example: `--file-table-map 'fileName1:tableName,fileName2:tableName'` OR `--file-table-map 'fileName*:tableName'`. |
| --format | Format of the data file. One of `csv` or `text`. <br> Default: csv<br>Example: `yb-voyager import data file ... --format text` |
| --has-header | For `csv` datafiles, use this argument if the datafile has a header with column names for the table. <br> Default: false <br>Example: `yb-voyager import data file ... --format csv --has-header true` <br> Accepted parameters: true, false, yes, no, 0, 1 |
| -e, --export-dir | Path to the export directory. This directory is a workspace used to store exported schema DDL files, export data files, migration state, and a log file.|
| -h, --help | Command line help. |
| --parallel-jobs | Number of parallel COPY commands issued to the target database. Depending on the YugabyteDB database configuration, the value of `--parallel-jobs` should be tweaked such that at most 50% of target cores are utilised. <br> Default: If yb-voyager can determine the total number of cores N in the YugabyteDB database cluster, it uses N/2 as the default. Otherwise, it defaults to twice the number of nodes in the cluster.|
| --quote-char | Character used to quote the values. <br> Default: double quotes `'"'`<br>Example: `yb-voyager import data file ... --quote-char '"'` |
| --send&#8209;diagnostics | Enable or disable sending [diagnostics](../../../diagnostics-report/) information to Yugabyte. <br>Default: true<br> Accepted parameters: true, false, yes, no, 0, 1 |
| --start-clean | Starts a fresh import with data files present in the `data` directory.<br>If there's any non-empty table on the target YugabyteDB database, you get a prompt whether to continue the import without truncating those tables; if you go ahead without truncating, then yb-voyager starts ingesting the data present in the data files with upsert mode.<br> **Note** that for cases where a table doesn't have a primary key, it may lead to insertion of duplicate data. In that case, you can avoid the duplication by excluding the table from the `--file-table-map`, or truncating those tables manually before using the `start-clean` flag.<br> Default: false <br> Accepted parameters: true, false, yes, no, 0, 1 |
| --target-db-name | Target database name. |
| --target&#8209;db&#8209;password | Target database password. Alternatively, you can also specify the password by setting the environment variable `TARGET_DB_PASSWORD`. If you don't provide a password via the CLI during any migration phase, yb-voyager will prompt you at runtime for a password. If the password contains special characters that are interpreted by the shell (for example, # and $), enclose the password in single quotes. |
| --target-db-port | Port number of the target database machine. <br> Default: 5433 |
| --target-db-schema | Schema name of the target database. MySQL and Oracle migrations only. |
| --target-db-user | Username of the target database. |
| --target-db-host | Domain name or IP address of the machine on which the target database server is running. <br>Default: "127.0.0.1" |
| --target-endpoints | Comma-separated list of node endpoints to use for parallel import of data.<br>Default: Use all the nodes in the cluster. For example: "host1:port1,host2:port2" or "host1,host2". Note: use-public-ip flag is ignored if this is used. |
| [--target-ssl-cert](../../yb-voyager-cli/#yugabytedb-options) | Path to a file containing the certificate which is part of the SSL `<cert,key>` pair. |
| [--target-ssl-key](../../yb-voyager-cli/#yugabytedb-options) | Path to a file containing the key which is part of the SSL `<cert,key>` pair. |
| [--target-ssl-crl](../../yb-voyager-cli/#yugabytedb-options) | Path to a file containing the SSL certificate revocation list (CRL).|
| --target-ssl-mode | Specify the SSL mode for the target database as one of `disable`, `allow`, `prefer` (default), `require`, `verify-ca`, or `verify-full`. |
| [--target-ssl-root-cert](../../yb-voyager-cli/#yugabytedb-options) <path> | Path to a file containing SSL certificate authority (CA) certificate(s). |
| --use-public-ip | Use the node public IP addresses to distribute `--parallel-jobs` uniformly on data import. <br>Default: false<br> **Note** that you may need to configure the YugabyteDB cluster with public IP addresses by setting [server-broadcast-addresses](../../../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#server-broadcast-addresses).<br>Example: `yb-voyager import data status ... --use-public-ip true`<br> Accepted parameters: true, false, yes, no, 0, 1 |
| -y, --yes  | Answer yes to all prompts during the export schema operation. |

### Examples

The following examples use the `--data-dir` argument along with `--file-table-map` argument and contextually differ based on whether the data is imported from local disk or cloud storage options.

{{< tabpane text=true >}}

 {{% tab header="CSV" %}}

Import data from CSV files using `import data file` by providing the argument `--format csv` in the command.

### Import data file from local disk

The `--data-dir` argument is a path to the local directory where all the CSV files are present, and the `--file-table-map` argument provides a comma-separated mapping between each CSV file in `--data-dir` to the corresponding table in the database (you can mention case-sensitive table names as well, for example, `--file-table-map 'foo.csv:"Foo"'`); each file has a header, delimiter as `','` (default), and escape and quote character as `'"'` (default).

```sh
yb-voyager import data file --export-dir /dir/export-dir \
        --target-db-host 127.0.0.1 \
        --target-db-user ybvoyager \
        --target-db-password 'password' \
        --target-db-name target_db \
        --target-db-schema target_schema \
        --data-dir /dir/data-dir \
        --file-table-map 'accounts.csv:accounts,transactions.csv:transactions' \
        --format csv \
        --has-header true
```

### Import data file from AWS S3

The `--data-dir` argument is the AWS S3 URL of the data directory on the S3 bucket where all the CSV files are present, and the `--file-table-map` argument provides a comma-separated mapping between each CSV file in `--data-dir` to the corresponding table in the database, where each file has `'\t'` (tab character) as the delimiter, escape character as `'\'` and quote character as `"'"` with no header (default) as demonstrated in the following command:

```sh
yb-voyager import data file --export-dir /dir/export-dir \
        --target-db-host 127.0.0.1 \
        --target-db-user ybvoyager \
        --target-db-password 'password' \
        --target-db-name target_db \
        --target-db-schema target_schema \
        --data-dir s3://abc-mart/data \
        --file-table-map 'orders.csv:"Orders",products.csv:"Products",users.csv:"Users",order-items.csv:"Order_items",payments.csv:"Payments",reviews.csv:"Reviews",categories.csv:"Categories"' \
        --format csv \
        --delimiter '\t' \
        --escape-char '\' \
        --quote-char "'"
```

### Import data file from GCS

The `--data-dir` argument is the GCS URL of the data directory on the GCS bucket where all the CSV files are present, and the `--file-table-map` argument provides a comma-separated mapping of each CSV file in `--data-dir` to the corresponding table in the database, where each file has delimiter as `' '` (white space), escape character as `'^'`, quote character as `'"'`, and null string for null values as `'NULL'` with no header (default) as demonstrated in the following command:

```sh
yb-voyager import data file --export-dir /dir/export-dir \
        --target-db-host 127.0.0.1 \
        --target-db-user ybvoyager \
        --target-db-password 'password' \
        --target-db-name target_db \
        --target-db-schema target_schema \
        --data-dir gs://abc-bank/data \
        --file-table-map 'accounts.csv:accounts,transactions.csv:transactions' \
        --format csv \
        --delimiter ' ' \
        --null-string 'NULL' \
        --escape-char '^' \
        --quote-char '"'
```

### Import data file from Azure blob

The `--data-dir` argument is the Azure blob URL of the data directory on the Azure blob container where all the CSV files are present, and the `--file-table-map` argument provides a comma-separated mapping of each CSV file in `--data-dir` to the corresponding table in the database, where each file has delimiter `'#'`, escape character as `'%'`, quote character as `'"'`, and null string for null values as 'null' with no header (default) as demonstrated in the following command:

```sh
yb-voyager import data file --export-dir /dir/export-dir \
        --target-db-host 127.0.0.1 \
        --target-db-user ybvoyager \
        --target-db-password 'password' \
        --target-db-name target_db \
        --target-db-schema target_schema \
        --data-dir https://admin.blob.core.windows.net/air-world/data \
        --file-table-map 'airlines.csv:airlines,airports.csv:airports,flights.csv:flights,passengers.csv:passengers,bookings.csv:booking' \
        --format csv \
        --delimiter '#' \
        --null-string 'null' \
        --escape-char '%' \
        --quote-char '"'
```

### Load multiple files to the same table

Multiple files can be imported in one table (for example, `foo1.csv:foo,foo2.csv:foo` or `foo*.csv:foo`).

The `--data-dir` argument is a path to the local directory where all the CSV files are present, and the `--file-table-map` argument provides a comma-separated mapping between each CSV file in `--data-dir` to the corresponding table in the database, where each file has a header, delimiter as `','` (default), and escape and quote character as `'"'`(default).

Example for each file entry in --file-table-map (`foo1.csv:foo,foo2.csv:foo`) is as follows:

```sh
yb-voyager import data file --export-dir /dir/export-dir \
        --target-db-host 127.0.0.1 \
        --target-db-user ybvoyager \
        --target-db-password 'password' \
        --target-db-name target_db \
        --target-db-schema target_schema \
        --data-dir /dir/data-dir \
        --file-table-map 'accounts.csv:accounts,transactions1.csv:transactions,transactions2.csv:transactions' \
        --format csv \
        --has-header true
```

Example for glob expression of files in --file-table-map (`foo*.csv:foo`) is as follows:

```sh
yb-voyager import data file --export-dir /dir/export-dir \
        --target-db-host 127.0.0.1 \
        --target-db-user ybvoyager \
        --target-db-password 'password' \
        --target-db-name target_db \
        --target-db-schema target_schema \
        --data-dir /dir/data-dir \
        --file-table-map 'accounts.csv:accounts,transactions*.csv:transactions' \
        --format csv \
        --has-header true
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab header="Text" %}}

Import data from text files using `import data file` by providing the argument `--format text` in the command.

### Import data file from local disk

The `--data-dir` argument is a path to the local directory where all the text files are present, and the `--file-table-map` argument provides a comma-separated mapping between each text file in `--data-dir` to the corresponding table in the database, where each file has `'\t'` (default) as a delimiter and `'\N'` (default) as a null string.

```sh
yb-voyager import data file --export-dir /dir/export-dir \
        --target-db-host 127.0.0.1 \
        --target-db-user ybvoyager \
        --target-db-password 'password' \
        --target-db-name target_db \
        --target-db-schema target_schema \
        --data-dir /dir/data-dir \
        --file-table-map 'accounts.txt:accounts,transactions.txt:transactions' \
        --format text
```

### Import data file from AWS S3

The `--data-dir` argument is the AWS S3 URL of the data directory on the S3 bucket where all the text files are present, and the `--file-table-map` argument provides a comma-separated mapping between each text file in `--data-dir` to the corresponding table in the database, where each file has `','` (comma) as the delimiter, and null string as `'NULL'` for null values as demonstrated in the following command:

```sh
yb-voyager import data file --export-dir /dir/export-dir \
        --target-db-host 127.0.0.1 \
        --target-db-user ybvoyager \
        --target-db-password 'password' \
        --target-db-name target_db \
        --target-db-schema target_schema \
        --data-dir s3://social-media/data \
        --file-table-map 'posts.txt:post,comments.txt:comments,profiles.txt:profiles,likes.txt:likes,messages.txt:messages,followers.txt:followers' \
        --format text \
        --delimiter ',' \
        --null-string 'NULL'
```

### Import data file from GCS

The `--data-dir` argument is the GCS URL of the data directory on the GCS bucket where all the text files are present, and the `--file-table-map` argument provides a comma-separated mapping of each text file in `--data-dir` to the corresponding table in the database (you can mention case-sensitive table names as well), where each file has delimiter as `'-'` (hyphen) as demonstrated in the following command:

```sh
yb-voyager import data file --export-dir /dir/export-dir \
        --target-db-host 127.0.0.1 \
        --target-db-user ybvoyager \
        --target-db-password 'password' \
        --target-db-name target_db \
        --target-db-schema target_schema \
        --data-dir gs://xyz-hospital/data \
        --file-table-map 'patients.txt:"Patients",doctors.txt:"Doctors",appointments.txt:"Appointments"' \
        --format text \
        --delimiter '-'
```

### Import data file from Azure blob

The `--data-dir` argument is the Azure blob URL of the data directory on the Azure blob container where all the text files are present, and the `--file-table-map` argument provides a comma-separated mapping of each text file in `--data-dir` to the corresponding table in the database, where each file has delimiter `'#'` (hash character), and null string as `'null'` for null values as demonstrated in the following command:

```sh
yb-voyager import data file --export-dir /dir/export-dir \
        --target-db-host 127.0.0.1 \
        --target-db-user ybvoyager \
        --target-db-password 'password' \
        --target-db-name target_db \
        --target-db-schema target_schema \
        --data-dir https://admin.blob.core.windows.net/weather-forecast/data \
        --file-table-map 'locations.txt:locations,weather.txt:weather,data.txt:data,forecasts.txt:forecasts' \
        --format text \
        --delimiter '#' \
        --null-string 'null'
```

### Load multiple files to the same table

Multiple files can be imported in one table (for example, `foo1.csv:foo,foo2.csv:foo` or `foo*.csv:foo`).

The `--data-dir` argument is a path to the local directory where all the text files are present, and the `--file-table-map` argument provides a comma-separated mapping between each text file in `--data-dir` to the corresponding table in the database  where each file has a header, delimiter as `'|'` (pipe character).

Example for each file entry in --file-table-map (`foo1.txt:foo,foo2.txt:foo`) is as follows:

```sh
yb-voyager import data file --export-dir /dir/export-dir \
        --target-db-host 127.0.0.1 \
        --target-db-user ybvoyager \
        --target-db-password 'password' \
        --target-db-name target_db \
        --target-db-schema target_schema \
        --data-dir /dir/academy-data \
        --file-table-map 'students1.txt:students,students2.txt:students,students3.txt:students,courses.txt:courses,instructors1.txt:instructors,instructors2.txt:instructors,enrollments.txt:enrollments,grades.txt:grades' \
        --format text \
        --delimiter '|'
```

Example for glob expression of files in --file-table-map (`foo*.txt:foo`) is as follows:

```sh
yb-voyager import data file --export-dir /dir/export-dir \
        --target-db-host 127.0.0.1 \
        --target-db-user ybvoyager \
        --target-db-password 'password' \
        --target-db-name target_db \
        --target-db-schema target_schema \
        --data-dir /dir/academy-data \
        --file-table-map 'students*.txt:students,courses.txt:courses,instructors*.txt:instructors,enrollments.txt:enrollments,grades.txt:grades' \
        --format text \
        --delimiter '|'
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabpane >}}

Commit message:

[BACKPORT pg15-cherrypicks] all: Bulk port from master - 48
Summary:
 65145f6bda [PLAT-14532] Import Local Release will now try to process all releases.
 c5c969e7e9 [PLAT-14153] Do not count already upgraded master nodes as "inactive masters" during a software upgrade
 b5a2e60118 [#23096] YSQL: Return empty response from pg_replication_slots instead of an error if yb_enable_replication_commands isn't true.
 2d5ca883d6 [PLAT-14157] Implement new per process metrics in node_health.py
 16072901ab [PLAT-14478] Allowing prometheus auth without enabling HTTPS
 57f4b33973 Handling markdown space in contributors.md
 9d54ca0507 [docs] voyager-1.7.2 changes (#23116)
 b81dbaaaed [#23094] YSQL: Fix flaky test TestPgRegressFeaturePartition
 8b202c13da [docs] Removed v2.16 (#23099)
 d040fd81ea [PLAT-11654] Adding client level retries to Azure ybops
 d0917bdaeb [PLAT-13865] Check for expiry of current in-use certs as well
 fbc51f6bc5 [#23128] CDCSDK: Fix TSAN failure in TestCDCSDKConsistentStreamWithManyTransactions
 44d899f962 [#21550] YSQL: testSetMemoryTracking UT fails with connection manager enabled
 650269f483 [#22848] YSQL: Stats are not updated correctly for sticky connections in ysql connection manager
 0fd57994d7 [PLAT-14527][PLAT-14538] : DB Audit log fixes and improvements
 4c35006f0f [PLAT-12685]: Add alerts for xCluster tales based on status

Test Plan: Jenkins: rebase: pg15-cherrypicks

Reviewers: jason, tfoucher

Subscribers: yql

Tags: #jenkins-ready

Differential Revision: https://phorge.dev.yugabyte.com/D36435

docs/content/preview/yugabyte-voyager/reference/bulk-data-load/import-data-file.md, after:

---
title: import data file reference
headcontent: yb-voyager import data file
linkTitle: import data file
description: YugabyteDB Voyager import data file reference
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-voyager:
    identifier: voyager-import-data-file
    parent: bulk-data-load-ref
    weight: 70
type: docs
---

Load data from files in CSV or text format directly to the YugabyteDB database. These data files can be located either on a local filesystem, an AWS S3 bucket, GCS bucket, or an Azure blob. For more details, see [Bulk data load from files](../../../migrate/bulk-data-load/).

## Syntax

```text
Usage: yb-voyager import data file [ <arguments> ... ]
```

### Arguments

The valid *arguments* for import data file are described in the following table:

| Argument | Description/valid options |
| :--- | :---- |
| --batch-size | Size of batches in the number of rows generated for ingestion during import data. <br> Default: 20000 rows |
| --data-dir | Path to the location of the data files to import; this can be a local directory or a URL for a cloud storage location such as an AWS S3 bucket, GCS bucket, or an Azure blob. For more details, see [Bulk data load from files](../../../migrate/bulk-data-load/).|
| --delimiter | Character used as a delimiter to separate column values in rows of the datafile(s). <br> Default: comma `','` for CSV file format and tab `'\t'` for TEXT file format.<br>Example: `yb-voyager import data file .... --delimiter ','` |
| --disable-pb |Use this argument to disable progress bar or statistics during data import. <br>Default: false<br> Accepted parameters: true, false, yes, no, 0, 1|
| --enable-upsert | Enable UPSERT mode on target tables while importing data.<br> Note: Ensure that tables on the target YugabyteDB database do not have secondary indexes. If a table has secondary indexes, setting this flag to true may lead to corruption of the indexes. <br>Default: false<br> Usage for disabling the mode: `yb-voyager import data status ... --enable-upsert false` |
| --escape-char | Escape character <br> Default: double quotes `'"'`<br>Example: `yb-voyager import data file ... --escape-char '"'` |
| --file-opts | **[Deprecated]** Comma-separated string options for CSV file format. <br>Options:<ul><li>`escape_char` - escape character</li><li>`quote_char` - character used to quote the values</li></ul>Default: double quotes (") for both escape and quote characters<br>**Note** that escape_char and quote_char are only valid and required for CSV file format.<br>Example: `--file-opts "escape_char \",quote_char \""` or `--file-opts 'escape_char ",quote_char "'` |
| --null-string | String that represents null values in the datafile. <br> Default: `""` (empty string) for CSV, and `'\N'` for text.<br>Example: `yb-voyager import data file ... --null-string 'NULL'` |
| --file-table-map | Comma-separated mapping between the files in `--data-dir` argument to the corresponding table in the database. You can import multiple files in one table either by providing one `<fileName>:<tableName>` entry for each file OR by passing a glob expression in place of the file name.<br>Example: `--file-table-map 'fileName1:tableName,fileName2:tableName'` OR `--file-table-map 'fileName*:tableName'`. |
| --format | Format of the data file. One of `csv` or `text`. <br> Default: csv<br>Example: `yb-voyager import data file ... --format text` |
| --has-header | For `csv` datafiles, use this argument if the datafile has a header with column names for the table. <br> Default: false <br>Example: `yb-voyager import data file ... --format csv --has-header true` <br> Accepted parameters: true, false, yes, no, 0, 1 |
| -e, --export-dir | Path to the export directory. This directory is a workspace used to store exported schema DDL files, export data files, migration state, and a log file.|
| -h, --help | Command line help. |
| --parallel-jobs | Number of parallel COPY commands issued to the target database. Depending on the YugabyteDB database configuration, the value of `--parallel-jobs` should be tweaked such that at most 50% of target cores are utilised. <br> Default: If yb-voyager can determine the total number of cores N in the YugabyteDB database cluster, it uses N/2 as the default. Otherwise, it defaults to twice the number of nodes in the cluster.|
| --quote-char | Character used to quote the values. <br> Default: double quotes `'"'`<br>Example: `yb-voyager import data file ... --quote-char '"'` |
| --send&#8209;diagnostics | Enable or disable sending [diagnostics](../../../diagnostics-report/) information to Yugabyte. <br>Default: true<br> Accepted parameters: true, false, yes, no, 0, 1 |
| --start-clean | Starts a fresh import with data files present in the `data` directory.<br>If there's any non-empty table on the target YugabyteDB database, you get a prompt whether to continue the import without truncating those tables; if you go ahead without truncating, then yb-voyager starts ingesting the data present in the data files with upsert mode.<br> **Note** that for cases where a table doesn't have a primary key, it may lead to insertion of duplicate data. In that case, you can avoid the duplication by excluding the table from the `--file-table-map`, or truncating those tables manually before using the `start-clean` flag.<br> Default: false <br> Accepted parameters: true, false, yes, no, 0, 1 |
| --target-db-name | Target database name. |
| --target&#8209;db&#8209;password | Target database password. Alternatively, you can also specify the password by setting the environment variable `TARGET_DB_PASSWORD`. If you don't provide a password via the CLI during any migration phase, yb-voyager will prompt you at runtime for a password. If the password contains special characters that are interpreted by the shell (for example, # and $), enclose the password in single quotes. |
| --target-db-port | Port number of the target database machine. <br> Default: 5433 |
| --target-db-schema | Schema name of the target database. MySQL and Oracle migrations only. |
| --target-db-user | Username of the target database. |
| --target-db-host | Domain name or IP address of the machine on which the target database server is running. <br>Default: "127.0.0.1" |
| --target-endpoints | Comma-separated list of node endpoints to use for parallel import of data.<br>Default: Use all the nodes in the cluster. For example: "host1:port1,host2:port2" or "host1,host2". Note: use-public-ip flag is ignored if this is used. |
| [--target-ssl-cert](../../yb-voyager-cli/#yugabytedb-options) | Path to a file containing the certificate which is part of the SSL `<cert,key>` pair. |
| [--target-ssl-key](../../yb-voyager-cli/#yugabytedb-options) | Path to a file containing the key which is part of the SSL `<cert,key>` pair. |
| [--target-ssl-crl](../../yb-voyager-cli/#yugabytedb-options) | Path to a file containing the SSL certificate revocation list (CRL).|
| --target-ssl-mode | Specify the SSL mode for the target database as one of `disable`, `allow`, `prefer` (default), `require`, `verify-ca`, or `verify-full`. |
| [--target-ssl-root-cert](../../yb-voyager-cli/#yugabytedb-options) <path> | Path to a file containing SSL certificate authority (CA) certificate(s). |
| --use-public-ip | Use the node public IP addresses to distribute `--parallel-jobs` uniformly on data import. <br>Default: false<br> **Note** that you may need to configure the YugabyteDB cluster with public IP addresses by setting [server-broadcast-addresses](../../../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#server-broadcast-addresses).<br>Example: `yb-voyager import data status ... --use-public-ip true`<br> Accepted parameters: true, false, yes, no, 0, 1 |
| -y, --yes  | Answer yes to all prompts during the export schema operation. |

### Examples

The following examples use the `--data-dir` argument along with `--file-table-map` argument and contextually differ based on whether the data is imported from local disk or cloud storage options.

{{< tabpane text=true >}}

 {{% tab header="CSV" %}}

Import data from CSV files using `import data file` by providing the argument `--format csv` in the command.

### Import data file from local disk

The `--data-dir` argument is a path to the local directory where all the CSV files are present, and the `--file-table-map` argument provides a comma-separated mapping between each CSV file in `--data-dir` to the corresponding table in the database (you can mention case-sensitive table names as well, for example, `--file-table-map 'foo.csv:"Foo"'`); each file has a header, delimiter as `','` (default), and escape and quote character as `'"'` (default).

```sh
yb-voyager import data file --export-dir /dir/export-dir \
        --target-db-host 127.0.0.1 \
        --target-db-user ybvoyager \
        --target-db-password 'password' \
        --target-db-name target_db \
        --target-db-schema target_schema \
        --data-dir /dir/data-dir \
        --file-table-map 'accounts.csv:accounts,transactions.csv:transactions' \
        --format csv \
        --has-header true
```

### Import data file from AWS S3

The `--data-dir` argument is the AWS S3 URL of the data directory on the S3 bucket where all the CSV files are present, and the `--file-table-map` argument provides a comma-separated mapping between each CSV file in `--data-dir` to the corresponding table in the database, where each file has `'\t'` (tab character) as the delimiter, escape character as `'\'` and quote character as `"'"` with no header (default) as demonstrated in the following command:

```sh
yb-voyager import data file --export-dir /dir/export-dir \
        --target-db-host 127.0.0.1 \
        --target-db-user ybvoyager \
        --target-db-password 'password' \
        --target-db-name target_db \
        --target-db-schema target_schema \
        --data-dir s3://abc-mart/data \
        --file-table-map 'orders.csv:"Orders",products.csv:"Products",users.csv:"Users",order-items.csv:"Order_items",payments.csv:"Payments",reviews.csv:"Reviews",categories.csv:"Categories"' \
        --format csv \
        --delimiter '\t' \
        --escape-char '\' \
        --quote-char "'"
```

### Import data file from GCS

The `--data-dir` argument is the GCS URL of the data directory on the GCS bucket where all the CSV files are present, and the `--file-table-map` argument provides a comma-separated mapping of each CSV file in `--data-dir` to the corresponding table in the database, where each file has delimiter as `' '` (white space), escape character as `'^'`, quote character as `'"'`, and null string for null values as `'NULL'` with no header (default) as demonstrated in the following command:

```sh
yb-voyager import data file --export-dir /dir/export-dir \
        --target-db-host 127.0.0.1 \
        --target-db-user ybvoyager \
        --target-db-password 'password' \
        --target-db-name target_db \
        --target-db-schema target_schema \
        --data-dir gs://abc-bank/data \
        --file-table-map 'accounts.csv:accounts,transactions.csv:transactions' \
        --format csv \
        --delimiter ' ' \
        --null-string 'NULL' \
        --escape-char '^' \
        --quote-char '"'
```

### Import data file from Azure blob

The `--data-dir` argument is the Azure blob URL of the data directory on the Azure blob container where all the CSV files are present, and the `--file-table-map` argument provides a comma-separated mapping of each CSV file in `--data-dir` to the corresponding table in the database, where each file has delimiter `'#'`, escape character as `'%'`, quote character as `'"'`, and null string for null values as 'null' with no header (default) as demonstrated in the following command:

```sh
yb-voyager import data file --export-dir /dir/export-dir \
        --target-db-host 127.0.0.1 \
        --target-db-user ybvoyager \
        --target-db-password 'password' \
        --target-db-name target_db \
        --target-db-schema target_schema \
        --data-dir https://admin.blob.core.windows.net/air-world/data \
        --file-table-map 'airlines.csv:airlines,airports.csv:airports,flights.csv:flights,passengers.csv:passengers,bookings.csv:booking' \
        --format csv \
        --delimiter '#' \
        --null-string 'null' \
        --escape-char '%' \
        --quote-char '"'
```

### Load multiple files to the same table

Multiple files can be imported in one table (for example, `foo1.csv:foo,foo2.csv:foo` or `foo*.csv:foo`).

The `--data-dir` argument is a path to the local directory where all the CSV files are present, and the `--file-table-map` argument provides a comma-separated mapping between each CSV file in `--data-dir` to the corresponding table in the database, where each file has a header, delimiter as `','` (default), and escape and quote character as `'"'`(default).

Example for each file entry in --file-table-map (`foo1.csv:foo,foo2.csv:foo`) is as follows:

```sh
yb-voyager import data file --export-dir /dir/export-dir \
        --target-db-host 127.0.0.1 \
        --target-db-user ybvoyager \
        --target-db-password 'password' \
        --target-db-name target_db \
        --target-db-schema target_schema \
        --data-dir /dir/data-dir \
        --file-table-map 'accounts.csv:accounts,transactions1.csv:transactions,transactions2.csv:transactions' \
        --format csv \
        --has-header true
```

Example for glob expression of files in --file-table-map (`foo*.csv:foo`) is as follows:

```sh
yb-voyager import data file --export-dir /dir/export-dir \
        --target-db-host 127.0.0.1 \
        --target-db-user ybvoyager \
        --target-db-password 'password' \
        --target-db-name target_db \
        --target-db-schema target_schema \
        --data-dir /dir/data-dir \
        --file-table-map 'accounts.csv:accounts,transactions*.csv:transactions' \
        --format csv \
        --has-header true
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab header="Text" %}}

Import data from text files using `import data file` by providing the argument `--format text` in the command.

### Import data file from local disk

The `--data-dir` argument is a path to the local directory where all the text files are present, and the `--file-table-map` argument provides a comma-separated mapping between each text file in `--data-dir` to the corresponding table in the database, where each file has `'\t'` (default) as a delimiter and `'\N'` (default) as a null string.

```sh
yb-voyager import data file --export-dir /dir/export-dir \
        --target-db-host 127.0.0.1 \
        --target-db-user ybvoyager \
        --target-db-password 'password' \
        --target-db-name target_db \
        --target-db-schema target_schema \
        --data-dir /dir/data-dir \
        --file-table-map 'accounts.txt:accounts,transactions.txt:transactions' \
        --format text
```

### Import data file from AWS S3

The `--data-dir` argument is the AWS S3 URL of the data directory on the S3 bucket where all the text files are present, and the `--file-table-map` argument provides a comma-separated mapping between each text file in `--data-dir` to the corresponding table in the database, where each file has `','` (comma) as the delimiter, and null string as `'NULL'` for null values as demonstrated in the following command:

```sh
yb-voyager import data file --export-dir /dir/export-dir \
        --target-db-host 127.0.0.1 \
        --target-db-user ybvoyager \
        --target-db-password 'password' \
        --target-db-name target_db \
        --target-db-schema target_schema \
        --data-dir s3://social-media/data \
        --file-table-map 'posts.txt:post,comments.txt:comments,profiles.txt:profiles,likes.txt:likes,messages.txt:messages,followers.txt:followers' \
        --format text \
        --delimiter ',' \
        --null-string 'NULL'
```

### Import data file from GCS

The `--data-dir` argument is the GCS URL of the data directory on the GCS bucket where all the text files are present, and the `--file-table-map` argument provides a comma-separated mapping of each text file in `--data-dir` to the corresponding table in the database (you can mention case-sensitive table names as well), where each file has delimiter as `'-'` (hyphen) as demonstrated in the following command:

```sh
yb-voyager import data file --export-dir /dir/export-dir \
        --target-db-host 127.0.0.1 \
        --target-db-user ybvoyager \
        --target-db-password 'password' \
        --target-db-name target_db \
        --target-db-schema target_schema \
        --data-dir gs://xyz-hospital/data \
        --file-table-map 'patients.txt:"Patients",doctors.txt:"Doctors",appointments.txt:"Appointments"' \
        --format text \
        --delimiter '-'
```

### Import data file from Azure blob

The `--data-dir` argument is the Azure blob URL of the data directory on the Azure blob container where all the text files are present, and the `--file-table-map` argument provides a comma-separated mapping of each text file in `--data-dir` to the corresponding table in the database, where each file has delimiter `'#'` (hash character), and null string as `'null'` for null values as demonstrated in the following command:

```sh
yb-voyager import data file --export-dir /dir/export-dir \
        --target-db-host 127.0.0.1 \
        --target-db-user ybvoyager \
        --target-db-password 'password' \
        --target-db-name target_db \
        --target-db-schema target_schema \
        --data-dir https://admin.blob.core.windows.net/weather-forecast/data \
        --file-table-map 'locations.txt:locations,weather.txt:weather,data.txt:data,forecasts.txt:forecasts' \
        --format text \
        --delimiter '#' \
        --null-string 'null'
```

### Load multiple files to the same table

Multiple files can be imported in one table (for example, `foo1.csv:foo,foo2.csv:foo` or `foo*.csv:foo`).

The `--data-dir` argument is a path to the local directory where all the text files are present, and the `--file-table-map` argument provides a comma-separated mapping between each text file in `--data-dir` to the corresponding table in the database  where each file has a header, delimiter as `'|'` (pipe character).

Example for each file entry in --file-table-map (`foo1.txt:foo,foo2.txt:foo`) is as follows:

```sh
yb-voyager import data file --export-dir /dir/export-dir \
        --target-db-host 127.0.0.1 \
        --target-db-user ybvoyager \
        --target-db-password 'password' \
        --target-db-name target_db \
        --target-db-schema target_schema \
        --data-dir /dir/academy-data \
        --file-table-map 'students1.txt:students,students2.txt:students,students3.txt:students,courses.txt:courses,instructors1.txt:instructors,instructors2.txt:instructors,enrollments.txt:enrollments,grades.txt:grades' \
        --format text \
        --delimiter '|'
```

Example for glob expression of files in --file-table-map (`foo*.txt:foo`) is as follows:

```sh
yb-voyager import data file --export-dir /dir/export-dir \
        --target-db-host 127.0.0.1 \
        --target-db-user ybvoyager \
        --target-db-password 'password' \
        --target-db-name target_db \
        --target-db-schema target_schema \
        --data-dir /dir/academy-data \
        --file-table-map 'students*.txt:students,courses.txt:courses,instructors*.txt:instructors,enrollments.txt:enrollments,grades.txt:grades' \
        --format text \
        --delimiter '|'
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabpane >}}
