docs/content/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-examples/connect-application.md, before:

---
title: Connect a Spring Data YugabyteDB application
linkTitle: Connect a Spring application
description: Connect a Spring Spring Data YugabyteDB application to YugabyteDB Managed.
headcontent:
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-cloud:
    identifier: connect-application
    parent: cloud-examples
    weight: 100
type: docs
---

The example on this page shows how you can connect a Spring application to YugabyteDB Managed, using a version of the Spring PetClinic sample application that has been updated with a domain and persistence layer built with [Spring Data YugabyteDB](https://github.com/yugabyte/spring-data-yugabytedb).

In addition to using Spring Data YugabyteDB, the application uses the following:

- [Flyway](https://flywaydb.org/) to manage the database schema and initial data loading.
- [SpringFox](https://springfox.github.io/springfox/) to deliver Swagger/OpenAPI docs.

The repository for the application is at <https://github.com/yugabyte/petclinic-spring-data-yugabytedb>. Instructions for connecting this application to YugabyteDB are also provided in the `readme.md` file in this repository.

In this walkthrough, you will:

- Download the Spring PetClinic application
- Obtain your cluster connection string
- Update and run the application locally

## Prerequisites

- Git
- YugabyteDB Managed cluster
  - Your computer IP address must be in an [IP allow list](../../cloud-secure-clusters/add-connections/)

## Clone the Spring Data YugabyteDB PetClinic application

1. On your computer, clone the Spring PetClinic sample application built with Spring Data YugabyteDB:

    ```sh
    $ git clone https://github.com/YugabyteDB-Samples/petclinic-spring-data-yugabytedb.git
    ```

    ```output
    Cloning into 'petclinic-spring-data-yugabytedb'...
    remote: Enumerating objects: 177, done.
    remote: Counting objects: 100% (177/177), done.
    remote: Compressing objects: 100% (121/121), done.
    remote: Total 177 (delta 43), reused 171 (delta 37), pack-reused 0
    Receiving objects: 100% (177/177), 1.02 MiB | 1.28 MiB/s, done.
    Resolving deltas: 100% (43/43), done.
    ```

1. Go to the `petclinic-spring-data-yugabytedb` directory.

    ```sh
    $ cd petclinic-spring-data-yugabytedb
    ```

## Install the certificate and copy the connection string

1. Sign in to YugabyteDB Managed, select your cluster, and click **Connect**.

1. Click **Connect to your Application**.

1. Click **Download CA Cert** to download the cluster `root.crt` certificate to your computer, and move the file to the `~/.postgresql` directory.

    ```sh
    $ mv ~/Downloads/root.crt ~/.postgresql/root.crt
    ```

1. Under **Add this connection string into your application**, copy the YSQL connection string.

    The connection string is in the form

    ```url
    postgresql://<DB USER>:<DB PASSWORD>@[host]:[port]/[database]?ssl=true&sslmode=verify-full&sslrootcert=<ROOT_CERT_PATH>
    ```

1. Edit the connection string to retain only the host, port (5433), database (by default, `yugabyte`), ssl, and sslmode entries. For example:

    ```url
    postgresql://[host]:5433/yugabyte?ssl=true&sslmode=verify-full
    ```

## Connect and run the application

1. On your computer, update the contents of the `spring-petclinic/src/main/resources/application.yml` file by updating the `yugabyte:datasource:url` with the modified YSQL connection string, and username and password with your YugabyteDB database credentials.

    The connection string replaces the url after `jdbc:`, as follows:

    ```yaml
    yugabyte:
    datasource:
        url: jdbc:[modified YSQL connection string]
        load-balance: true
        username: [user]
        password: [password]
    ```

    where `[modified YSQL connection string]` is the modified YSQL connection string, and `[user]` and `[password]` are the credentials for the database.

1. Run the PetClinic application using the following command:

    ```sh
    $ ./mvnw spring-boot:run
    ```

    ```output
    [INFO] Scanning for projects...
    [INFO]
    [INFO] ----< org.springframework.samples:petclinic-spring-data-yugabytedb >----
    [INFO] Building petclinic 2.1.0.BUILD-SNAPSHOT
    [INFO] --------------------------------[ jar ]---------------------------------
    [INFO]
    [INFO] >>> spring-boot-maven-plugin:2.5.4:run (default-cli) > test-compile @ petclinic-spring-data-yugabytedb >>>
    ```

    Flyway configures the Yugabyte database with the Petclinic schema and loads the sample data.

1. Go to <http://localhost:8080>.

The PetClinic application is now running locally and is connected to your YugabyteDB Managed cluster.

![PetClinic application running](/images/yb-cloud/petclinic-springdata.png)

## Explore PetClinic

1. In the Petclinic app, click **Find Owners**, then click **Add Owner**.

1. Enter owner details and click **Add Owner** to add the new owner.

1. In YugabyteDB Managed, select your cluster, click **Connect** and choose **Launch Cloud Shell**.

1. Click **Confirm** to open the shell in a new browser window. The shell can take up to 30 seconds to appear.

1. Enter your password.

1. At the shell prompt, display the schema of the `owner` table.

    ```sql
    yugabyte=# \d owner
    ```

    ```output
                                        Table "public.owner"
    Column   |          Type          | Collation | Nullable |             Default
    ------------+------------------------+-----------+----------+----------------------------------
    id         | integer                |           | not null | generated by default as identity
    first_name | character varying(30)  |           |          |
    last_name  | character varying(30)  |           |          |
    address    | character varying(255) |           |          |
    city       | character varying(80)  |           |          |
    telephone  | character varying(20)  |           |          |
    Indexes:
        "owner_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, lsm (id HASH)
        "owner_last_name" lsm (lower(last_name::text) HASH)
    Referenced by:
        TABLE "pet" CONSTRAINT "fk_pet_owners" FOREIGN KEY (owner_id) REFERENCES owner(id)
    ```

1. Run a query to select the id, first_name, and last_name columns.

```sql
yugabyte=# SELECT id, first_name, last_name FROM owner;
```

```output
 id | first_name | last_name
----+------------+-----------
  5 | Peter      | McTavish
  1 | George     | Franklin
 11 | Mary       | Stewart
  6 | Jean       | Coleman
  7 | Jeff       | Black
  9 | David      | Schroeder
 10 | Carlos     | Estaban
  4 | Harold     | Davis
  2 | Betty      | Davis
  8 | Maria      | Escobito
  3 | Eduardo    | Rodriquez
(11 rows)
```

Commit message:

Managed -> Aeon (cloud directories only)

docs/content/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-examples/connect-application.md, after:

---
title: Connect a Spring Data YugabyteDB application
linkTitle: Connect a Spring application
description: Connect a Spring Spring Data YugabyteDB application to YugabyteDB Aeon.
headcontent:
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-cloud:
    identifier: connect-application
    parent: cloud-examples
    weight: 100
type: docs
---

The example on this page shows how you can connect a Spring application to YugabyteDB Aeon, using a version of the Spring PetClinic sample application that has been updated with a domain and persistence layer built with [Spring Data YugabyteDB](https://github.com/yugabyte/spring-data-yugabytedb).

In addition to using Spring Data YugabyteDB, the application uses the following:

- [Flyway](https://flywaydb.org/) to manage the database schema and initial data loading.
- [SpringFox](https://springfox.github.io/springfox/) to deliver Swagger/OpenAPI docs.

The repository for the application is at <https://github.com/yugabyte/petclinic-spring-data-yugabytedb>. Instructions for connecting this application to YugabyteDB are also provided in the `readme.md` file in this repository.

In this walkthrough, you will:

- Download the Spring PetClinic application
- Obtain your cluster connection string
- Update and run the application locally

## Prerequisites

- Git
- YugabyteDB Aeon cluster
  - Your computer IP address must be in an [IP allow list](../../cloud-secure-clusters/add-connections/)

## Clone the Spring Data YugabyteDB PetClinic application

1. On your computer, clone the Spring PetClinic sample application built with Spring Data YugabyteDB:

    ```sh
    $ git clone https://github.com/YugabyteDB-Samples/petclinic-spring-data-yugabytedb.git
    ```

    ```output
    Cloning into 'petclinic-spring-data-yugabytedb'...
    remote: Enumerating objects: 177, done.
    remote: Counting objects: 100% (177/177), done.
    remote: Compressing objects: 100% (121/121), done.
    remote: Total 177 (delta 43), reused 171 (delta 37), pack-reused 0
    Receiving objects: 100% (177/177), 1.02 MiB | 1.28 MiB/s, done.
    Resolving deltas: 100% (43/43), done.
    ```

1. Go to the `petclinic-spring-data-yugabytedb` directory.

    ```sh
    $ cd petclinic-spring-data-yugabytedb
    ```

## Install the certificate and copy the connection string

1. Sign in to YugabyteDB Aeon, select your cluster, and click **Connect**.

1. Click **Connect to your Application**.

1. Click **Download CA Cert** to download the cluster `root.crt` certificate to your computer, and move the file to the `~/.postgresql` directory.

    ```sh
    $ mv ~/Downloads/root.crt ~/.postgresql/root.crt
    ```

1. Under **Add this connection string into your application**, copy the YSQL connection string.

    The connection string is in the form

    ```url
    postgresql://<DB USER>:<DB PASSWORD>@[host]:[port]/[database]?ssl=true&sslmode=verify-full&sslrootcert=<ROOT_CERT_PATH>
    ```

1. Edit the connection string to retain only the host, port (5433), database (by default, `yugabyte`), ssl, and sslmode entries. For example:

    ```url
    postgresql://[host]:5433/yugabyte?ssl=true&sslmode=verify-full
    ```

## Connect and run the application

1. On your computer, update the contents of the `spring-petclinic/src/main/resources/application.yml` file by updating the `yugabyte:datasource:url` with the modified YSQL connection string, and username and password with your YugabyteDB database credentials.

    The connection string replaces the url after `jdbc:`, as follows:

    ```yaml
    yugabyte:
    datasource:
        url: jdbc:[modified YSQL connection string]
        load-balance: true
        username: [user]
        password: [password]
    ```

    where `[modified YSQL connection string]` is the modified YSQL connection string, and `[user]` and `[password]` are the credentials for the database.

1. Run the PetClinic application using the following command:

    ```sh
    $ ./mvnw spring-boot:run
    ```

    ```output
    [INFO] Scanning for projects...
    [INFO]
    [INFO] ----< org.springframework.samples:petclinic-spring-data-yugabytedb >----
    [INFO] Building petclinic 2.1.0.BUILD-SNAPSHOT
    [INFO] --------------------------------[ jar ]---------------------------------
    [INFO]
    [INFO] >>> spring-boot-maven-plugin:2.5.4:run (default-cli) > test-compile @ petclinic-spring-data-yugabytedb >>>
    ```

    Flyway configures the Yugabyte database with the Petclinic schema and loads the sample data.

1. Go to <http://localhost:8080>.

The PetClinic application is now running locally and is connected to your YugabyteDB Aeon cluster.

![PetClinic application running](/images/yb-cloud/petclinic-springdata.png)

## Explore PetClinic

1. In the Petclinic app, click **Find Owners**, then click **Add Owner**.

1. Enter owner details and click **Add Owner** to add the new owner.

1. In YugabyteDB Aeon, select your cluster, click **Connect** and choose **Launch Cloud Shell**.

1. Click **Confirm** to open the shell in a new browser window. The shell can take up to 30 seconds to appear.

1. Enter your password.

1. At the shell prompt, display the schema of the `owner` table.

    ```sql
    yugabyte=# \d owner
    ```

    ```output
                                        Table "public.owner"
    Column   |          Type          | Collation | Nullable |             Default
    ------------+------------------------+-----------+----------+----------------------------------
    id         | integer                |           | not null | generated by default as identity
    first_name | character varying(30)  |           |          |
    last_name  | character varying(30)  |           |          |
    address    | character varying(255) |           |          |
    city       | character varying(80)  |           |          |
    telephone  | character varying(20)  |           |          |
    Indexes:
        "owner_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, lsm (id HASH)
        "owner_last_name" lsm (lower(last_name::text) HASH)
    Referenced by:
        TABLE "pet" CONSTRAINT "fk_pet_owners" FOREIGN KEY (owner_id) REFERENCES owner(id)
    ```

1. Run a query to select the id, first_name, and last_name columns.

```sql
yugabyte=# SELECT id, first_name, last_name FROM owner;
```

```output
 id | first_name | last_name
----+------------+-----------
  5 | Peter      | McTavish
  1 | George     | Franklin
 11 | Mary       | Stewart
  6 | Jean       | Coleman
  7 | Jeff       | Black
  9 | David      | Schroeder
 10 | Carlos     | Estaban
  4 | Harold     | Davis
  2 | Betty      | Davis
  8 | Maria      | Escobito
  3 | Eduardo    | Rodriquez
(11 rows)
```
