docs/content/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-examples/hasura-sample-app.md, before:

---
title: Deploy a GraphQL application
headerTitle: Deploy a GraphQL application
linkTitle: Deploy a GraphQL application
description: Deploy the Realtime Poll GraphQL application for Hasura Cloud and YugabyteDB Managed.
aliases:
  - /preview/yugabyte-cloud/hasura-sample-app/
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-cloud:
    identifier: hasura-application
    parent: cloud-examples
    weight: 450
type: docs
---

This page demonstrates how to deploy a GraphQL application on Hasura Cloud and YugabyteDB Managed using Hasura's Realtime Poll sample application. This application is built using React, powered by the Hasura GraphQL Engine, and backed by a YugabyteDB Managed YugabyteDB cluster. It has an interface for users to cast a vote on a poll, and results are updated in an on-screen bar chart in real time.

## Prerequisites

The example has the following prerequisites:

* You have created a cluster on YugabyteDB Managed. For instructions, refer to [Create your cluster](../../cloud-basics/create-clusters/).
* You have created a Hasura project and connected it to your cluster. For instructions, refer to [Connect Hasura Cloud to YugabyteDB Managed](../hasura-cloud/).

  You will also need the **Admin Secret** of your Hasura project.

  For details on using Hasura Cloud, refer to the [Hasura Cloud documentation](https://hasura.io/docs/latest/graphql/cloud/index.html).
* You have installed Hasura CLI. You apply database migrations to the Hasura project using the Hasura CLI. To install Hasura CLI, refer to [Installing the Hasura CLI](https://hasura.io/docs/latest/graphql/core/hasura-cli/install-hasura-cli.html#install-hasura-cli).

### Download the Realtime Poll application

The Realtime Poll application is available from the [YugabyteDB GraphQL Apps](https://github.com/YugabyteDB-Samples/yugabyte-graphql-apps) repository.

```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/YugabyteDB-Samples/yugabyte-graphql-apps.git
$ cd yugabyte-graphql-apps/realtime-poll
```

## Set up and configure Realtime Poll and apply migrations

You need to configure the Realtime Poll application to use the Hasura Cloud project domain and Admin Secret:

1. On your local computer, navigate to the `hasura` directory in the realtime-poll directory.

    ```sh
    $ cd hasura
    ```

1. Edit the `config.yaml` file by changing the following parameters:

    * Set `endpoint` to the domain of your Hasura project; for example, `https://yb-realtime-poll.hasura.app`.
    * Set `admin_secret` to the **Admin Secret** you copied from the Hasura Cloud project dashboard.

To migrate the tables and views to the Yugabyte database:

1. Navigate to the `migrations` directory in the `hasura` directory.

    ```sh
    $ cd migrations
    ```

1. Rename the `default` directory to the Database Display Name you assigned to your YugabyteDB Managed database in the Hasura project console; for example, if your Database Display Name is `yb-realtime-polldb`, use the following command:

    ```sh
    $ mv default yb-realtime-polldb
    ```

1. Return to the hasura directory and apply the migration. For example, if your Database Display Name is `yb-realtime-polldb`, use the following command:

    ```sh
    $ cd ..
    $ hasura migrate apply --database-name yb-realtime-polldb
    ```

    This creates the tables and views required for the polling application in the database.

Finally, update the Realtime Poll application with the Hasura Cloud project domain and Admin Secret:

1. Navigate to the `src` directory in the sample application directory.

    ```sh
    $ cd realtime-poll/src
    ```

1. Edit the `apollo.js` file by changing the following parameters:

    * set the `HASURA_GRAPHQL_ENGINE_HOSTNAME` constant to the domain of your Hasura project; for example, `yb-realtime-poll.hasura.app`.
    * set the `hasura_secret` variable to the **Admin Secret** you copied from the Hasura Cloud project dashboard.

## Configure the Hasura project

First, expose the tables and relationships to the GraphQL API:

1. Navigate to the **Data** tab in your Hasura Cloud project console. The tables from the Realtime Poll application are listed under **Untracked tables or views**.

1. Click **Track All** and **OK** to confirm to allow the tables to be exposed over the GraphQL API.

    After the console refreshes, **Untracked foreign-key relationships** lists the relationships.

1. Click **Track All** and **OK** to confirm to allow the relationships to be exposed over the GraphQL API.

Next, add a new Array relationship for the `poll_results` table called `option` as follows:

1. Select the `poll_results` table.

1. Select the **Relationships** tab.

1. Under **Add a new relationship manually**, click **Configure**.

1. Set the following options:

    * Set **Relationship Type** to Array Relationship.
    * In the **Relationship Name** field, enter option.
    * Set **Reference Schema** to public.
    * Set **Reference Table** to option.
    * Set **From** to `poll_id` and **To** to `poll_id`.<br><br>

    ![Add relationships in Hasura Cloud](/images/deploy/yugabyte-cloud/hasura-cloud-relationships-add.png)<br><br>

1. Click **Save**.

## Run Realtime Poll

To run the Realtime Poll application, on your local computer, navigate to the application root (`realtime-poll`) directory and run the following commands:

```sh
$ npm install
$ npm start
```

Realtime Poll starts on <http://localhost:3000>.

Open a second browser tab, navigate to <http://localhost:3000>, and cast a vote for React. The chart updates automatically using GraphQL Subscriptions.

![Realtime Poll application](/images/deploy/yugabyte-cloud/hasura-realtime-poll.png)

To verify the data being committed to the YugabyteDB Managed instance, run the following subscription query on the **API** tab of the Hasura Cloud project console to retrieve the Poll ID:

```sh
query {
  poll (limit: 10) {
    id
    question
    options (order_by: {id:desc}){
      id
      text
    }
  }
}
```

Note the Poll ID, then run the following query, setting the `pollID` GraphQL Query Variable to the Poll ID you retrieved using the previous query:

```sh
subscription getResult($pollId: uuid!) {
  poll_results (
    order_by: {option_id:desc},
    where: { poll_id: {_eq: $pollId} }
  ) {
    option_id
    option { id text }
    votes
  }
}
```

Set the `$pollID` variable in the Query Variables field.

```sh
{ "$pollId" : "98277113-a7a2-428c-9c8b-0fe7a91bf42c"}
```

Commit message:

Managed -> Aeon (cloud directories only)

docs/content/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-examples/hasura-sample-app.md, after:

---
title: Deploy a GraphQL application
headerTitle: Deploy a GraphQL application
linkTitle: Deploy a GraphQL application
description: Deploy the Realtime Poll GraphQL application for Hasura Cloud and YugabyteDB Aeon.
aliases:
  - /preview/yugabyte-cloud/hasura-sample-app/
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-cloud:
    identifier: hasura-application
    parent: cloud-examples
    weight: 450
type: docs
---

This page demonstrates how to deploy a GraphQL application on Hasura Cloud and YugabyteDB Aeon using Hasura's Realtime Poll sample application. This application is built using React, powered by the Hasura GraphQL Engine, and backed by a YugabyteDB Aeon YugabyteDB cluster. It has an interface for users to cast a vote on a poll, and results are updated in an on-screen bar chart in real time.

## Prerequisites

The example has the following prerequisites:

* You have created a cluster on YugabyteDB Aeon. For instructions, refer to [Create your cluster](../../cloud-basics/create-clusters/).
* You have created a Hasura project and connected it to your cluster. For instructions, refer to [Connect Hasura Cloud to YugabyteDB Aeon](../hasura-cloud/).

  You will also need the **Admin Secret** of your Hasura project.

  For details on using Hasura Cloud, refer to the [Hasura Cloud documentation](https://hasura.io/docs/latest/graphql/cloud/index.html).
* You have installed Hasura CLI. You apply database migrations to the Hasura project using the Hasura CLI. To install Hasura CLI, refer to [Installing the Hasura CLI](https://hasura.io/docs/latest/graphql/core/hasura-cli/install-hasura-cli.html#install-hasura-cli).

### Download the Realtime Poll application

The Realtime Poll application is available from the [YugabyteDB GraphQL Apps](https://github.com/YugabyteDB-Samples/yugabyte-graphql-apps) repository.

```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/YugabyteDB-Samples/yugabyte-graphql-apps.git
$ cd yugabyte-graphql-apps/realtime-poll
```

## Set up and configure Realtime Poll and apply migrations

You need to configure the Realtime Poll application to use the Hasura Cloud project domain and Admin Secret:

1. On your local computer, navigate to the `hasura` directory in the realtime-poll directory.

    ```sh
    $ cd hasura
    ```

1. Edit the `config.yaml` file by changing the following parameters:

    * Set `endpoint` to the domain of your Hasura project; for example, `https://yb-realtime-poll.hasura.app`.
    * Set `admin_secret` to the **Admin Secret** you copied from the Hasura Cloud project dashboard.

To migrate the tables and views to the Yugabyte database:

1. Navigate to the `migrations` directory in the `hasura` directory.

    ```sh
    $ cd migrations
    ```

1. Rename the `default` directory to the Database Display Name you assigned to your YugabyteDB Aeon database in the Hasura project console; for example, if your Database Display Name is `yb-realtime-polldb`, use the following command:

    ```sh
    $ mv default yb-realtime-polldb
    ```

1. Return to the hasura directory and apply the migration. For example, if your Database Display Name is `yb-realtime-polldb`, use the following command:

    ```sh
    $ cd ..
    $ hasura migrate apply --database-name yb-realtime-polldb
    ```

    This creates the tables and views required for the polling application in the database.

Finally, update the Realtime Poll application with the Hasura Cloud project domain and Admin Secret:

1. Navigate to the `src` directory in the sample application directory.

    ```sh
    $ cd realtime-poll/src
    ```

1. Edit the `apollo.js` file by changing the following parameters:

    * set the `HASURA_GRAPHQL_ENGINE_HOSTNAME` constant to the domain of your Hasura project; for example, `yb-realtime-poll.hasura.app`.
    * set the `hasura_secret` variable to the **Admin Secret** you copied from the Hasura Cloud project dashboard.

## Configure the Hasura project

First, expose the tables and relationships to the GraphQL API:

1. Navigate to the **Data** tab in your Hasura Cloud project console. The tables from the Realtime Poll application are listed under **Untracked tables or views**.

1. Click **Track All** and **OK** to confirm to allow the tables to be exposed over the GraphQL API.

    After the console refreshes, **Untracked foreign-key relationships** lists the relationships.

1. Click **Track All** and **OK** to confirm to allow the relationships to be exposed over the GraphQL API.

Next, add a new Array relationship for the `poll_results` table called `option` as follows:

1. Select the `poll_results` table.

1. Select the **Relationships** tab.

1. Under **Add a new relationship manually**, click **Configure**.

1. Set the following options:

    * Set **Relationship Type** to Array Relationship.
    * In the **Relationship Name** field, enter option.
    * Set **Reference Schema** to public.
    * Set **Reference Table** to option.
    * Set **From** to `poll_id` and **To** to `poll_id`.<br><br>

    ![Add relationships in Hasura Cloud](/images/deploy/yugabyte-cloud/hasura-cloud-relationships-add.png)<br><br>

1. Click **Save**.

## Run Realtime Poll

To run the Realtime Poll application, on your local computer, navigate to the application root (`realtime-poll`) directory and run the following commands:

```sh
$ npm install
$ npm start
```

Realtime Poll starts on <http://localhost:3000>.

Open a second browser tab, navigate to <http://localhost:3000>, and cast a vote for React. The chart updates automatically using GraphQL Subscriptions.

![Realtime Poll application](/images/deploy/yugabyte-cloud/hasura-realtime-poll.png)

To verify the data being committed to the YugabyteDB Aeon instance, run the following subscription query on the **API** tab of the Hasura Cloud project console to retrieve the Poll ID:

```sh
query {
  poll (limit: 10) {
    id
    question
    options (order_by: {id:desc}){
      id
      text
    }
  }
}
```

Note the Poll ID, then run the following query, setting the `pollID` GraphQL Query Variable to the Poll ID you retrieved using the previous query:

```sh
subscription getResult($pollId: uuid!) {
  poll_results (
    order_by: {option_id:desc},
    where: { poll_id: {_eq: $pollId} }
  ) {
    option_id
    option { id text }
    votes
  }
}
```

Set the `$pollID` variable in the Query Variables field.

```sh
{ "$pollId" : "98277113-a7a2-428c-9c8b-0fe7a91bf42c"}
```
