docs/content/preview/yugabyte-voyager/install-yb-voyager.md, before:

---
title: Install yb-voyager
headerTitle: Install
linkTitle: Install
description: Prerequisites and installation instructions for YugabyteDB Voyager.
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-voyager:
    identifier: install-yb-voyager
    parent: yugabytedb-voyager
    weight: 101
type: docs
---

## Prerequisites

The following sections describe the prerequisites for installing YugabyteDB Voyager.

### Operating system

You can install YugabyteDB Voyager on the following:

- RHEL 7/8
- CentOS 7/8
- Ubuntu 18.04, 20.04, 22.04
- macOS (For MySQL/Oracle source databases on macOS, [install yb-voyager](#install-yb-voyager) using the Docker option.)

### Hardware requirements

- Disk space of at least 1.5 times the estimated size of the source database
- 2 cores minimum (recommended)

### Software requirement

- Java 11 or later. For better performance, the recommended version is Java 17.

### Prepare the host

The node where you'll run the yb-voyager command should:

- connect to both the source and the target database.
- have sudo access.

## Install yb-voyager

YugabyteDB Voyager consists of the yb-voyager command line executable.

Install yb-voyager on a machine which satisfies the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) using one of the following options:

<ul class="nav nav-tabs nav-tabs-yb">
  <li>
    <a href="#rhel" class="nav-link active" id="rhel-tab" data-bs-toggle="tab" role="tab" aria-controls="rhel" aria-selected="true">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-redhat" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      RHEL
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#ubuntu" class="nav-link" id="ubuntu-tab" data-bs-toggle="tab" role="tab" aria-controls="ubuntu" aria-selected="true">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-ubuntu" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      Ubuntu
    </a>
  </li>
    <li >
    <a href="#macos" class="nav-link" id="macos-tab" data-bs-toggle="tab" role="tab" aria-controls="macos" aria-selected="true">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-apple" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      macOS
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#airgapped" class="nav-link" id="airgapped-tab" data-bs-toggle="tab" role="tab" aria-controls="airgapped" aria-selected="true">
      <i class="fa-solid fa-link-slash" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      Airgapped
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#docker" class="nav-link" id="docker-tab" data-bs-toggle="tab" role="tab" aria-controls="docker" aria-selected="true">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-docker" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      Docker
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#github" class="nav-link" id="github-tab" data-bs-toggle="tab" role="tab" aria-controls="github" aria-selected="true">
      <i class="fab fa-github" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      Source
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

<div class="tab-content">
  <div id="rhel" class="tab-pane fade show active" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="rhel-tab">
{{% readfile "./rhel.md" %}}
  </div>
  <div id="ubuntu" class="tab-pane fade" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="ubuntu-tab">
{{% readfile "./ubuntu.md" %}}
  </div>
  <div id="macos" class="tab-pane fade" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="macos-tab">
{{% readfile "./macos.md" %}}
  </div>
  <div id="airgapped" class="tab-pane fade" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="airgapped-tab">
{{< readfile "./airgapped.md" >}}
  </div>
  <div id="docker" class="tab-pane fade" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="docker-tab">
{{% readfile "./docker.md" %}}
  </div>
  <div id="github" class="tab-pane fade" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="github-tab">
{{% readfile "./github.md" %}}
  </div>
</div>

### Collect diagnostics

By default, yb-voyager captures a [diagnostics report](../diagnostics-report/) using the YugabyteDB diagnostics service that runs each time you use the yb-voyager command. If you don't want to send diagnostics when you run yb-voyager, set the [--send-diagnostics flag](../diagnostics-report/#configuration-flag) to false.

## Next step

- [Migrate](../migrate/)

Commit message:

[BACKPORT pg15-cherrypicks] all: Bulk port from master - 92
Summary:
 f8049b897a [doc][xcluster][2024.1.2] Semi-automatic transactional xCluster (#23710)
 f2c84706c9 [docs][yugabyted][2024.1.2] Add Read Replica and xCluster examples (#23289)
 ea3157c237 [doc][yba][2024.1.2] Export database audit logs (#23605)
 Excluded: 8bae4881dc [#18822] YSQL: Write out unmodified cols to main table when update optimizations are enabled
 5012632f86 [PLAT-15152] Upgrade YBC client and server version to 2.2.0.0-b5
 cccb1e10e4 Fix YCQL index table workflow in docs (#23774)
 9a3f5f7896 [PLAT-15028] yba installer simplify postgres initdb
 a2b5e7243e [docs] Release notes for 2024.1.2.0 (#23679)
 9a9690d4f2 Fix 2024.1.2 build number (#23779)
 aec361bad8 [doc] Voyager 1.8 (#23764)
 a2540e077f [DEVOPS-3185, DEVOPS-3114] Bump up frozen pip modules to latest versions compatible with py3.8
 88f23ddf03 [docs] [xcluster] Add min version for semi-automatic mode (#23776)
 1d61e6716c Revise the entire assessment page (#23784)
 142c04a4ac [PLAT-15089] HA sync immediately after promotion
 315110f96f [PLAT-15132][PLAT-15153] Allow users to configure logging level for YNP, also minor bug fixes
 82ff8d1396 [PLAT-6779] Handle relative paths in yb_platform_backup.sh
 Excluded: 45c9cf8b59 [#23263] YSQL, ASH: Instrument more wait states
 Excluded: 9f8acff298 [#22148] YSQL, QueryDiagnostics:  Adding support for Ash data.
 39670e8d26 download links (#23790)
 2674a79fa7 [#23780] YSQL: Modify catalog version mismatch test assertions with Connection Manager enabled
 3eb31b872f [#23777] yugabyted: update the gflags of pg parity to remove sized based fetching and add bitmap scans.
 fc5accd907 [docs] Enclose `allowed_preview_flags_csv` CSV parameters in brackets (#23758)

Test Plan: Jenkins: rebase: pg15-cherrypicks

Reviewers: jason, tfoucher

Differential Revision: https://phorge.dev.yugabyte.com/D37772

docs/content/preview/yugabyte-voyager/install-yb-voyager.md, after:

---
title: Install yb-voyager
headerTitle: Install
linkTitle: Install
description: Prerequisites and installation instructions for YugabyteDB Voyager.
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-voyager:
    identifier: install-yb-voyager
    parent: yugabytedb-voyager
    weight: 101
type: docs
---

## Prerequisites

The following sections describe the prerequisites for installing YugabyteDB Voyager.

### Operating system

You can install YugabyteDB Voyager on the following:

- RHEL 8
- CentOS 8
- Ubuntu 18.04, 20.04, 22.04
- macOS (For MySQL/Oracle source databases on macOS, [install yb-voyager](#install-yb-voyager) using the Docker option.)

### Hardware requirements

- Disk space of at least 1.5 times the estimated size of the source database
- 2 cores minimum (recommended)

### Software requirement

- Java 17. Any higher versions of Java might lead to errors during installation or migration.

### Prepare the host

The node where you'll run the yb-voyager command should:

- connect to both the source and the target database.
- have sudo access.

## Install yb-voyager

YugabyteDB Voyager consists of the yb-voyager command line executable.

Install yb-voyager on a machine which satisfies the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) using one of the following options:

<ul class="nav nav-tabs nav-tabs-yb">
  <li>
    <a href="#rhel" class="nav-link active" id="rhel-tab" data-bs-toggle="tab" role="tab" aria-controls="rhel" aria-selected="true">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-redhat" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      RHEL
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#ubuntu" class="nav-link" id="ubuntu-tab" data-bs-toggle="tab" role="tab" aria-controls="ubuntu" aria-selected="true">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-ubuntu" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      Ubuntu
    </a>
  </li>
    <li >
    <a href="#macos" class="nav-link" id="macos-tab" data-bs-toggle="tab" role="tab" aria-controls="macos" aria-selected="true">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-apple" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      macOS
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#airgapped" class="nav-link" id="airgapped-tab" data-bs-toggle="tab" role="tab" aria-controls="airgapped" aria-selected="true">
      <i class="fa-solid fa-link-slash" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      Airgapped
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#docker" class="nav-link" id="docker-tab" data-bs-toggle="tab" role="tab" aria-controls="docker" aria-selected="true">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-docker" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      Docker
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#github" class="nav-link" id="github-tab" data-bs-toggle="tab" role="tab" aria-controls="github" aria-selected="true">
      <i class="fab fa-github" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      Source
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

<div class="tab-content">
  <div id="rhel" class="tab-pane fade show active" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="rhel-tab">
{{% readfile "./rhel.md" %}}
  </div>
  <div id="ubuntu" class="tab-pane fade" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="ubuntu-tab">
{{% readfile "./ubuntu.md" %}}
  </div>
  <div id="macos" class="tab-pane fade" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="macos-tab">
{{% readfile "./macos.md" %}}
  </div>
  <div id="airgapped" class="tab-pane fade" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="airgapped-tab">
{{< readfile "./airgapped.md" >}}
  </div>
  <div id="docker" class="tab-pane fade" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="docker-tab">
{{% readfile "./docker.md" %}}
  </div>
  <div id="github" class="tab-pane fade" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="github-tab">
{{% readfile "./github.md" %}}
  </div>
</div>

### Collect diagnostics

By default, yb-voyager captures a [diagnostics report](../diagnostics-report/) using the YugabyteDB diagnostics service that runs each time you use the yb-voyager command. If you don't want to send diagnostics when you run yb-voyager, set the [--send-diagnostics flag](../diagnostics-report/#configuration-flag) to false.

## Next step

- [Migrate](../migrate/)
