docs/content/preview/yugabyte-voyager/ubuntu.md, before:

<!--
+++
private=true
+++
-->

Perform the following steps to install yb-voyager using apt for Ubuntu:

{{< note title="Note" >}}
`apt` installation is only supported for Ubuntu 22. For other versions such as 18 and 20, use the install script via the Source installation option.
{{< /note >}}

1. Install the Yugabyte apt repository on your machine using the following command:

    ```sh
    wget https://s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/downloads.yugabyte.com/repos/reporpms/yb-apt-repo_1.0.0_all.deb
    sudo apt-get install ./yb-apt-repo_1.0.0_all.deb
    ```

    This repository contains the `yb-voyager` debian package and the dependencies required to run `yb-voyager`.

1. Clean the `apt-get` cache and package lists using the following commands::

    ```sh
    sudo apt-get clean
    sudo apt-get update
    ```

1. Install yb-voyager and its dependencies using the following command:

    ```sh
    sudo apt-get install yb-voyager
    ```

1. Check that yb-voyager is installed using the following command:

    ```sh
    yb-voyager version
    ```

Commit message:

[docs] voyager-1.7.2 changes (#23116)
* voyager-1.7.2 changes

* addressed comments

* a minor comment

docs/content/preview/yugabyte-voyager/ubuntu.md, after:

<!--
+++
private=true
+++
-->

Perform the following steps to install yb-voyager using apt for Ubuntu:

{{< note title="Note" >}}
`apt` installation is only supported for Ubuntu 22. For other versions such as 18 and 20, use the install script via the Source installation option.
{{< /note >}}

1. Install the Yugabyte apt repository on your machine using the following command:

    ```sh
    wget https://s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/downloads.yugabyte.com/repos/reporpms/yb-apt-repo_1.0.0_all.deb
    sudo apt-get install ./yb-apt-repo_1.0.0_all.deb
    ```

    This repository contains the `yb-voyager` debian package and the dependencies required to run `yb-voyager`.

1. Clean the `apt-get` cache and package lists using the following commands::

    ```sh
    sudo apt-get clean
    sudo apt-get update
    ```

1. Install yb-voyager and its dependencies using the following command:

    ```sh
    sudo apt-get install yb-voyager
    ```

    Note: If you see a failure in the install step similar to the following:

    ```output
    Depends: ora2pg (= 23.2-yb.2) but 24.3-1.pgdg22.04+1 is to be installed
    ```

    Try installing ora2pg using the following command:

    ```sh
    sudo apt-get install ora2pg=23.2-yb.2
    ```

    And then, try installing yb-voyager using the following command:

    ```sh
    sudo apt-get install yb-voyager
    ```

1. Check that yb-voyager is installed using the following command:

    ```sh
    yb-voyager version
    ```
