docs/content/preview/yugabyte-cloud/managed-automation/managed-terraform.md, before:

---
title: YugabyteDB Managed Terraform Provider
headerTitle: Terraform Provider
linkTitle: Terraform Provider
description: Terraform Provider for YugabyteDB Managed.
headcontent: Manage YugabyteDB Managed accounts and deployments using the Terraform Provider
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-cloud:
    parent: managed-automation
    identifier: managed-terraform
    weight: 10
type: docs
---

Use the YugabyteDB Managed Terraform Provider to deploy and manage clusters programmatically. Some examples of what you can accomplish using this provider include:

- Deploy and manage clusters
- Deploy and manage read replicas
- Pause and resume clusters automatically, based on a schedule or external events
- Run on-demand backups and restores
- Change backup and maintenance schedules
- Configure monitoring and alerts

{{< youtube id="cHPMDLeVkFU?si=GcZBrV27HDqPpezs" title="YugabyteDB Managed Terraform Provider" >}}

{{< sections/2-boxes >}}
  {{< sections/bottom-image-box
    title="Get Started"
    description="Manage YugabyteDB Managed using the Terraform Provider."
    buttonText="Provider Documentation"
    buttonUrl="https://registry.terraform.io/providers/yugabyte/ybm/latest/docs/"
  >}}

{{< /sections/2-boxes >}}

Commit message:

Managed -> Aeon (cloud directories only)

docs/content/preview/yugabyte-cloud/managed-automation/managed-terraform.md, after:

---
title: YugabyteDB Aeon Terraform Provider
headerTitle: Terraform Provider
linkTitle: Terraform Provider
description: Terraform Provider for YugabyteDB Aeon.
headcontent: Manage YugabyteDB Aeon accounts and deployments using the Terraform Provider
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-cloud:
    parent: managed-automation
    identifier: managed-terraform
    weight: 10
type: docs
---

Use the YugabyteDB Aeon Terraform Provider to deploy and manage clusters programmatically. Some examples of what you can accomplish using this provider include:

- Deploy and manage clusters
- Deploy and manage read replicas
- Pause and resume clusters automatically, based on a schedule or external events
- Run on-demand backups and restores
- Change backup and maintenance schedules
- Configure monitoring and alerts

{{< youtube id="cHPMDLeVkFU?si=GcZBrV27HDqPpezs" title="YugabyteDB Aeon Terraform Provider" >}}

{{< sections/2-boxes >}}
  {{< sections/bottom-image-box
    title="Get Started"
    description="Manage YugabyteDB Aeon using the Terraform Provider."
    buttonText="Provider Documentation"
    buttonUrl="https://registry.terraform.io/providers/yugabyte/ybm/latest/docs/"
  >}}

{{< /sections/2-boxes >}}
