docs/content/preview/yugabyte-cloud/managed-automation/managed-api.md, before:

---
title: YugabyteDB Managed REST API
headerTitle: REST API
linkTitle: REST API
description: REST API YugabyteDB Managed.
headcontent: Manage YugabyteDB Managed accounts and deployments using the REST API
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-cloud:
    parent: managed-automation
    identifier: managed-api
    weight: 10
type: docs
---

The YugabyteDB Managed REST API allows you to deploy and manage your database clusters in YugabyteDB Managed programmatically. Some examples of what you can accomplish using this API include:

- Deploy and manage clusters
- Deploy and manage read replicas
- Pause and resume clusters automatically, based on a schedule or external events
- Run on-demand backups and restores
- Change backup and maintenance schedules
- Configure monitoring and alerts

{{< youtube id="bD9CNHwet74?si=UpNu1jedrvni2mht" title="YugabyteDB Managed REST API" >}}

{{< sections/2-boxes >}}
  {{< sections/bottom-image-box
    title="Get Started"
    description="Manage YugabyteDB Managed using the API."
    buttonText="API Documentation"
    buttonUrl="https://api-docs.yugabyte.com/docs/managed-apis/9u5yqnccbe8lk-yugabyte-db-managed-rest-api"
  >}}

{{< /sections/2-boxes >}}

Commit message:

[doc][ybm] Changes for pricing plans #20900 (#22588)
* Changes for pricing plans

* costing page update for new pricing

* misc edits

* edits

* edit

* review comment

* review comment

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Aishwarya Chakravarthy  <achakravarthy@yugabyte.com>

* review comments

* Managed -> Aeon (cloud directories only)

* menus and shortcodes

* Stable: Managed -> Aeon

* v2.20: Managed -> Aeon

* fix typo

* Misc acronym fixes

* v2.18: Managed -> Aeon

* preview: Managed -> Aeon

* typos

* fix deep links

* purge stale links to corp site

* screenshot and billing edits

* review comments

---------

Co-authored-by: Aishwarya Chakravarthy <achakravarthy@yugabyte.com>

docs/content/preview/yugabyte-cloud/managed-automation/managed-api.md, after:

---
title: YugabyteDB Aeon REST API
headerTitle: REST API
linkTitle: REST API
description: REST API YugabyteDB Aeon.
headcontent: Manage YugabyteDB Aeon accounts and deployments using the REST API
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-cloud:
    parent: managed-automation
    identifier: managed-api
    weight: 10
type: docs
---

The YugabyteDB Aeon REST API allows you to deploy and manage your database clusters in YugabyteDB Aeon programmatically. Some examples of what you can accomplish using this API include:

- Deploy and manage clusters
- Deploy and manage read replicas
- Pause and resume clusters automatically, based on a schedule or external events
- Run on-demand backups and restores
- Change backup and maintenance schedules
- Configure monitoring and alerts

{{< youtube id="bD9CNHwet74?si=UpNu1jedrvni2mht" title="YugabyteDB Aeon REST API" >}}

{{< sections/2-boxes >}}
  {{< sections/bottom-image-box
    title="Get Started"
    description="Manage YugabyteDB Aeon using the API."
    buttonText="API Documentation"
    buttonUrl="https://api-docs.yugabyte.com/docs/managed-apis/9u5yqnccbe8lk-yugabyte-db-managed-rest-api"
  >}}

{{< /sections/2-boxes >}}
