docs/content/stable/reference/configuration/operating-systems.md, before:

---
title: Operating system support
headerTitle: Operating system support
linkTitle: Operating systems
description: Operating systems supported by YugabyteDB and YugabyteDB Anywhere.
menu:
  stable:
    identifier: operating-systems
    parent: configuration
    weight: 3000
type: docs
---

## YugabyteDB

The following operating systems and architectures are supported for [deploying YugabyteDB](../../../deploy/manual-deployment/).

Unless otherwise noted, operating systems are supported by all supported versions of YugabyteDB and YugabyteDB Anywhere. YugabyteDB Anywhere added support for deploying YugabyteDB to ARM-based systems for non-Kubernetes platforms in v2.18.

| Operating system | x86            | ARM            | Notes |
| :--------------- | :------------- | :------------- | :---- |
| AlmaLinux 8      | {{<icon/yes>}} | {{<icon/yes>}} | Recommended for production<br>Recommended development platform<br>Default for YBA-deployed nodes |
| AlmaLinux 9      | {{<icon/yes>}} | {{<icon/yes>}} |       |
| Amazon Linux 2   | {{<icon/yes>}} | {{<icon/yes>}} | v2.18.0 and later<br>Deprecated in v2.20.0 |
| CentOS7          | {{<icon/yes>}} |                | Deprecated in v2.20.0 |
| Oracle 7         | {{<icon/yes>}} |                | |
| Oracle 8         | {{<icon/yes>}} |                | |
| Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7 | {{<icon/yes>}} |      |       |
| Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8 | {{<icon/yes>}} |      | Recommended for production |
<!-- | Red Hat Enterprise Linux&nbsp;9.3 | {{<icon/yes>}} |  | v2.20.3 and later<br>Recommended for production | -->
| SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 15 SP5 | {{<icon/yes>}} |     | {{<badge/ea>}} |
| Ubuntu 18        | {{<icon/yes>}} | {{<icon/yes>}} | Deprecated in v2.20.0 |
| Ubuntu 20        | {{<icon/yes>}} | {{<icon/yes>}} |       |
| Ubuntu 22        | {{<icon/yes>}} | {{<icon/yes>}} | Supported in v2.18.5, v2.20.1 |

Commit message:

[docs] Docs release 2024.1.0.0 (#22616)
* added 2024.1 docs

* review comments

* added a link for memory

* added till build 129

* reviews from yu-shen

* more edits

* added known issue

* date updates

* added yba note

* review comments

* removed incorrect link

* known issue is fixed in 2024.1

* clarify yugabyted feature

* minor edit

* updated date

* fixed yba build number

* changed links

---------

Co-authored-by: Dwight Hodge <ghodge@yugabyte.com>

docs/content/stable/reference/configuration/operating-systems.md, after:

---
title: Operating system support
headerTitle: Operating system support
linkTitle: Operating systems
description: Operating systems supported by YugabyteDB and YugabyteDB Anywhere.
menu:
  stable:
    identifier: operating-systems
    parent: configuration
    weight: 3000
type: docs
---

## YugabyteDB

The following operating systems and architectures are supported for [deploying YugabyteDB](../../../deploy/manual-deployment/).

Unless otherwise noted, operating systems are supported by all supported versions of YugabyteDB and YugabyteDB Anywhere. YugabyteDB Anywhere added support for deploying YugabyteDB to ARM-based systems for non-Kubernetes platforms in v2.18.

| Operating system | x86            | ARM            | Notes |
| :--------------- | :------------- | :------------- | :---- |
| AlmaLinux 8      | {{<icon/yes>}} | {{<icon/yes>}} | Recommended for production<br>Recommended development platform<br>Default for YBA-deployed nodes |
| AlmaLinux 9      | {{<icon/yes>}} | {{<icon/yes>}} |       |
| Amazon Linux 2   | {{<icon/yes>}} | {{<icon/yes>}} | v2.18.0 and later<br>Deprecated in v2.20.0; not supported in v2.21.0.0 release and [upcoming release series](../../../releases/#upcoming-release-series) |
| Amazon Linux 2 (ARM, CIS-hardened) | {{<icon/no>}} | {{<icon/yes>}} | Supported in v2.20.x. Database performance in this environment varies both due to CIS-hardening and ARM. For more information, contact {{% support-general %}}.|
| CentOS7          | {{<icon/yes>}} |                | Deprecated in v2.20.0; not supported in v2.21.0.0 release and [upcoming release series](../../../releases/#upcoming-release-series) |
| Oracle Linux 7         | {{<icon/yes>}} |                | Deprecated in v2.20.0; not supported in v2.21.0.0 release and [upcoming release series](../../../releases/#upcoming-release-series)|
| Oracle Linux 8         | {{<icon/yes>}} |                | |
| Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7 | {{<icon/yes>}} |      | Deprecated in v2.20.0; not supported in v2.21.0.0 release and [upcoming release series](../../../releases/#upcoming-release-series) |
| Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8 | {{<icon/yes>}} |      | Recommended for production |
| SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 15 SP5 | {{<icon/yes>}} |     | {{<badge/ea>}} |
| Ubuntu 18        | {{<icon/yes>}} | {{<icon/yes>}} | Deprecated in v2.20.0; not supported in v2.21.0.0 release and [upcoming release series](../../../releases/#upcoming-release-series) |
| Ubuntu 20        | {{<icon/yes>}} | {{<icon/yes>}} |       |
| Ubuntu 22        | {{<icon/yes>}} | {{<icon/yes>}} | Supported in v2.18.5, v2.20.1 |

<!-- | Red Hat Enterprise Linux&nbsp;9.3 | {{<icon/yes>}} |  | v2.20.3 and later<br>Recommended for production | -->
