---
title: What's new in the YugabyteDB v2.20 LTS release series
headerTitle: What's new in the YugabyteDB v2.20 LTS release series
linkTitle: v2.20 series (LTS)
description: Enhancements, changes, and resolved issues in the YugabyteDB v2.20 LTS release series recommended for production deployments.
aliases:
 - /preview/releases/release-notes/stable-release/
 - /preview/releases/whats-new/stable-release/
menu:
 preview_releases:
   identifier: v2.20
   parent: release-notes
   weight: 2815
rightNav:
 hideH4: true
type: docs
---

{{< tip title="YugabyteDB Anywhere release notes" >}}
The [release notes for YugabyteDB Anywhere](../../yba-releases/) are on [their own page](../../yba-releases/v2.20/).
{{< /tip >}}

{{< tip title="LTS - Feature availability" >}}
All features in stable releases are considered to be {{<badge/ga>}} unless marked otherwise.
{{< /tip >}}

What follows are the release notes for the YugabyteDB v2.20 release series. Content will be added as new notable features and changes are available in the patch releases of the YugabyteDB v2.20 release series.

For an RSS feed of all release series, point your feed reader to the [RSS feed for releases](../../index.xml).

## v2.20.1.1 - January 10, 2024 {#v2.20.1.1}

**Build:** `2.20.1.1-b4`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.20.1.1/yugabytedb-2.20.1.1-b4-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.20.1.1/yugabytedb-anywhere-2.20.1.1-b4-third-party-licenses.html)

### Downloads

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.20.1.1/yugabyte-2.20.1.1-b4-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-apple"></i>
     <span>macOS</span>
   </a>
 </li>
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.20.1.1/yugabyte-2.20.1.1-b4-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.20.1.1/yugabyte-2.20.1.1-b4-el8-aarch64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux ARM</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

### Docker

```sh
docker pull yugabytedb/yugabyte:2.20.1.1-b4
```

### Improvements

#### YSQL

* In Read Committed Isolation, limit the number of retry attempts when the aborted query is retried. {{<issue 20359>}}

### Bug fixes

#### YSQL

* Return correct results when Batch Nested Loop join is used for queries involving Nested LEFT JOINs on LATERAL views. {{<issue 19642>}},{{<issue 19946>}}

* Added a regression test for nested correlated subquery. {{<issue 20316>}}

#### CDC

* Fixed decimal type precision while decoding CDC record. {{<issue 20414>}}

#### DocDB

* In Read Committed Isolation, immediately abort transactions when conflict is detected. {{<issue 20329>}}

## v2.20.1.0 - December 27, 2023 {#v2.20.1.0}

**Build:** `2.20.1.0-b97`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.20.1.0/yugabytedb-2.20.1.0-b97-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.20.1.0/yugabytedb-anywhere-2.20.1.0-b97-third-party-licenses.html)

### Downloads

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.20.1.0/yugabyte-2.20.1.0-b97-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-apple"></i>
     <span>macOS</span>
   </a>
 </li>
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.20.1.0/yugabyte-2.20.1.0-b97-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.20.1.0/yugabyte-2.20.1.0-b97-el8-aarch64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux ARM</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

### Docker

```sh
docker pull yugabytedb/yugabyte:2.20.1.0-b97
```

### Improvements

#### YSQL

* Adjusts ysql_dump when run with `--include-yb-metadata` argument, to circumvent unnecessary automatic index backfilling. This avoids unnecessary RPC calls. {{<issue 19457>}}
* Imports the `pgcrypto: Check for error return of px_cipher_decrypt` upstream PostgreSQL patch; OpenSSL 3.0+ prerequisite. {{<issue 19732>}}
* Imports the upstream PG commit `Disable OpenSSL EVP digest padding in pgcrypto`; OpenSSL 3.0+ prerequisite. {{<issue 19733>}}
* Imports an upstream PostgreSQL commit that adds an alternative output when OpenSSL 3 doesn't load legacy modules; OpenSSL 3.0+ prerequisite. {{<issue 19734>}}
* Removes the need for a table scan when adding a new column with a `NOT NULL` constraint and a non-volatile `DEFAULT` value, enhancing ADD COLUMN operations. {{<issue 19355>}}
* Mitigates CVE-2023-39417 by importing a security-focused upstream Postgres commit from REL_11_STABLE for YSQL users. {{<issue 14419>}}
* Fixes CVE-2020-1720 by importing upstream Postgres commit from REL_11_STABLE, enabling support for `ALTER <object>DEPENDS ON EXTENSION` in future for objects like function, procedure, routine, trigger, materialized view, and index. {{<issue 14419>}}
* Modifies the planner to allow ordered index scans with IN conditions on lower columns; this takes advantage of the YB LSM indexes, which maintain index order. {{<issue 19576>}}
* Increase the oom_score_adj (Out of Memory score adjustment) of the YSQL webserver to 900, the same as PG backends, prioritizing its termination when it significantly consumes memory. {{<issue 20028>}}
* Blocks the use of advisory locks in YSQL, as they are currently unsupported. {{<issue 18954>}}
* Introduces `yb_silence_advisory_locks_not_supported_error` as a temporary solution, avoiding disruption while users transition from the use of advisory locks. {{<issue 19974>}}

#### DocDB

* Enable checks for trailing zeros in SST data files to help identify potential corruption. {{<issue 19691>}}
* Includes version information in the error message when the yb process crashes due to AutoFlags being enabled on an unsupported older version, enhancing the ease of identifying the issue. {{<issue 16181>}}
* Prints long trace logs with a continuation marker when a trace is split into multiple LOG(INFO) outputs. This is for log readability. {{<issue 19532>}},{{<issue 19808>}}
* Upgrades OpenSSL to version 3.0.8, disabling Linuxbrew builds and updating glog for stack unwinding based on the backtrace function. {{<issue 19736>}}
* Expands debug information to help investigate SELECT command errors that imply faults in read path processing or provisional record writing. {{<issue 19876>}}
* Adds support for `rocksdb_max_sst_write_retries` flag: maximum allowed number of attempts to write SST file in case of detected corruption after write (by default 0 which means no retries). Implemented for both flushes and compactions. {{<issue 19730>}}
* Balances load during tablet creation across all drives, preventing bottlenecks and underutilized drives during remote-bootstrapping; uses total number of tablets assigned for tie-breaking. {{<issue 19846>}}
* Adds tserver page to display all ongoing Remote Bootstrap sessions, and shows the source of bootstrap sessions in the `Last Status` field, for improved visibility. {{<issue 19568>}}
* Enhances error reporting from XClusterPollers by storing just the error code instead of detailed status, making it safer against master and Tserver restarts and reducing memory usage. {{<issue 19455>}}
* Incorporates a JoinStringsLimitCount utility for displaying only the first 20 elements in a large array, saving memory and space while logging or reporting tablet IDs. {{<issue 19527>}}
* Adds a sanity check to prevent restoration of the initial sys catalog snapshot when the `master_join_existing_universe` flag is set. {{<issue 19357>}}
* Parallelizes RPCs in `DoGetLockStatus` to fetch locks swiftly, enhancing the database's response time while retrieving old transactions. {{<issue 18034>}}
* Simplifies xCluster replication failure debugging via a new `get_auto_flags_config` yb-admin command, returning the current AutoFlags config. {{<issue 20046>}}
* Enables automatic recovery of index tables affected by {{<issue 19544>}}, improving performance and disk size management by removing excess tombstones in the SST files. {{<issue 19731>}}
* Introduces verbose logging for global and per table state transitions in the load balancer to facilitate easier debugging. {{<issue 20289>}}

#### CDC

* Allows the catalog manager to eliminate erroneous entries from the `cdc_state` table for newly split tablets; prevents race conditions by reversing the order of operations during the `CleanUpCDCStreamsMetadata` process. {{<issue 19746>}}

#### yugabyted

* Resolves `0.0.0.0` to `127.0.0.1` as the IP for master, tserver and yugabyted-UI when `0.0.0.0` is specified as the `advertise_address` in `yugabyted start` command. {{<issue 18580>}}
* Ensures the yugabyted UI can fetch and display `Alert` messages from different nodes by adjusting the `/alerts` endpoint in the API server to include a `node_address` parameter. {{<issue 19972>}}
* Eliminates the deprecated `use_initial_sys_catalog_snapshot` gflag in yugabyted, thus reducing log warning messages. {{<issue 20056>}}

#### Other

* Better indentation of multi-line remote trace entry output, for readability. {{<issue 19758>}}
* Implements a preventative safeguard in tserver operations by adding a check that a tablet has explicitly been deleted before issuing a `DeleteTablet` command, minimizing data loss risks and enhancing reliability. This feature, enabled with `master_enable_deletion_check_for_orphaned_tablets=true`, is upgrade and downgrade safe. {{<issue 18332>}}

### Bug fixes

#### YSQL

* Allows the postprocess script in `pg_regress` to run on alternative expected files alongside `default_expectfile` and `platform_expectfile`, fixing unintended mismatches. {{<issue 19737>}}
* Prevents stuck PostgreSQL processes and ensures successful acquisition of locks in the future. This enhancement particularly aids in preventing deadlocks when creating replication slots with duplicate names. {{<issue 19509>}}
* Ensures OID uniqueness within a database in YB environment by introducing a new per-database OID allocator, avoiding risk of collisions across multiple nodes or tenants. This change is safe for upgrades and rollbacks, enabled by a new gflag `ysql_enable_pg_per_database_oid_allocator`. {{<issue 16130>}}
* Prevents postmaster crashes during connection termination cleanup by using the killed process's `ProcStruct` to wait on a lock. {{<issue 18000>}}
* Fixes the distinct query iteration to distinguish between deleted and live keys; this prevents missing live rows during distinct queries on tables with dead tuples. {{<issue 19911>}}
* Fixes bug when type-checking bound tuple IN conditions involving binary columns like UUID. {{<issue 19753>}}
* Ensures PK modification does not disable Row-Level Security (RLS). {{<issue 19815>}}
* Tracks spinlock acquisition during process initialisation, and reduce the time to detect spinlock deadlock. {{<issue 18272>}},{{<issue 18265>}}
* Reverts to PG restart in rare event of process termination during initiation or cleanup; this avoids needing to determine what subset of shared memory items to clean. {{<issue 19945>}}
* Prevents unexpected crashes during plan creation when joining two varchar columns. Handles the derivation of `element_typeid` in Batched Nested Loop (BNL) queries; casts both sides to text to ensure valid equality expression. {{<issue 20003>}}
* Reduces Proc struct consumption by enabling cleanup for killed background workers, preventing webserver start-up failure after 8 attempts. {{<issue 20154>}}
* Frees up large volumes of unused memory from the webserver after processing queries, enhancing periodic workloads by reallocating held memory to the OS more effectively. {{<issue 20040>}}
* Introduces two new boolean flags for YSQL webserver debugging and failure identification.The first will log every endpoint access and its list of arguments before running the path handler. The second will print basic tcmalloc stats after the path handler and garbage collection have run. {{<issue 20157>}}
* Rectifies an issue causing segmentation faults when the postmaster acquires already owned LWLock, enhancing stability during process cleanup. Uses KilledProcToCleanup instead of MyProc if acquiring locks under the postmaster. {{<issue 20166>}}
* Improves insight into webserver memory usage `:13000/memz` and `:13000/webserver-heap-prof`, which print tcmalloc stats and display currents or peak allocations respectively. {{<issue 20157>}}
* Restarts postmaster in critical sections.This applies to backend PG code; defines and improves handling of errors in these sections. {{<issue 20255>}}
* Caps the number of attempts to read inconsistent backend entries to 1000 for safer operation and better visibility, limiting potential infinite loops in `/rpcz` calls and logging every hundredth attempt. {{<issue 20274>}}
* Resolves segmentation faults in the webserver SIGHUP handler during cleanup. {{<issue 20309>}}
* Allows the finalize_plan function to now apply finalize_primnode on PushdownExprs, ensuring Parameter nodes in subplans transfer values accurately, especially in Parallel Queries. {{<issue 19694>}}

#### DocDB

* Enables Masters to decrypt universe key registry correctly when Master turns into a leader following Remote Bootstrap. correctly when it turns into a leader. {{<issue 19513>}}
* Fixes metric retryable requests mem-tracker metric so it's aggregated at table-level {{<issue 19301>}}
* Ensure data consistency by checking if there is pending apply record, preventing the removal of large transactions that are still applying intents during bootstrap. {{<issue 19359>}}
* Prevents a write to freed memory; `RefinedStream::Connected` returns status instead of calling `context_->Destroy(status)`. {{<issue 19727>}}
* Allows serving remote bootstrap from a follower peer, i.e. initial remote log anchor request is at the follower's last logged operation id index, reducing probability of fallback to bootstrap from the leader; this could increase system efficiency under high load. {{<issue 19536>}}
* Corrects Master's tablet_overhead memory tracker to correctly display consumption, ensuring accurate reflection of data in Memory Breakdown UI page, and aligns MemTracker metric names between TServer and Master. {{<issue 19904>}}
* Resolves intermittent index creation failure for empty YCQL tables by validating the `is_running` state instead of checking the index state directly; prevents inaccurate values in old indexes and ensuring `retain_delete_markers` are correctly set to false. {{<issue 19933>}}
* Addresses a deadlock issue during tablet shutdown with wait-queues enabled by modifying the Wait-Queue shutdown path to set shutdown flags during `StartShutdown` and process callbacks during `CompleteShutdown`. {{<issue 19867>}}
* Reduces race conditions in `MasterChangeConfigTest.TestBlockRemoveServerWhenConfigHasTransitioningServer` by letting asynchronous threads operate on `ExternalMaster*` copies, not `current_masters`. {{<issue 19927>}}
* Allows only a single heap profile to run at a time, restricting concurrent profile runs to avoid misinterpretation of sampling frequency reset values. {{<issue 19841>}}
* Eliminates misleading `Transaction Metadata Missing` errors during a deadlock by replacing them with more accurate deadlock-specific messages. {{<issue 20016>}}
* Fixes behavior of Tcmalloc sampling; deprecates the `enable_process_lifetime_heap_sampling` flag in favor of directly setting `profiler_sample_freq_bytes` for controlling tcmalloc sampling, enhancing control over sampling process. {{<issue 20236>}}

#### CDC

* Corrects a deadlock during the deletion of a database with CDC streams by ensuring namespace-level CDC stream does not add the same stream per table more than once. {{<issue 19879>}}

#### yugabyted

* Adds a check for a join flag to avoid error when starting two different local RF-1 YugabyteDB instances on mac {{<issue 20018>}}

#### Other

* Rectifies the CentOS GCC11 and background worker asan build issues by utilizing stack allocation and eliminating the unsupported std::string::erase with const iterators. {{<issue 20147>}},{{<issue 20087>}}
* Fixes segmentation fault in stats collector after Postmaster reset by cleaning up after terminated backends and properly resetting shared memory and structures, resulting in improved stability and reliability of the system. {{<issue 19672>}}
* Allows custom port configurations in multi-region/zone YugabyteDB clusters to prevent connectivity problems during cluster setup. {{<issue 15334>}}

## v2.20.0.2 - December 15, 2023 {#v2.20.0.2}

**Build:** `2.20.0.2-b1`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.20.0.2/yugabytedb-2.20.0.2-b1-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.20.0.2/yugabytedb-anywhere-2.20.0.2-b1-third-party-licenses.html)

### Downloads

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.20.0.2/yugabyte-2.20.0.2-b1-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-apple"></i>
     <span>macOS</span>
   </a>
 </li>
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.20.0.2/yugabyte-2.20.0.2-b1-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.20.0.2/yugabyte-2.20.0.2-b1-el8-aarch64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux ARM</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

### Docker

```sh
docker pull yugabytedb/yugabyte:2.20.0.2-b1
```

This is a YugabyteDB Anywhere-only release, with no changes to the database.

## v2.20.0.1 - December 5, 2023 {#v2.20.0.1}

**Build:** `2.20.0.1-b1`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.20.0.1/yugabytedb-2.20.0.1-b1-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.20.0.1/yugabytedb-anywhere-2.20.0.1-b1-third-party-licenses.html)

### Downloads

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.20.0.1/yugabyte-2.20.0.1-b1-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-apple"></i>
     <span>macOS</span>
   </a>
 </li>
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.20.0.1/yugabyte-2.20.0.1-b1-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.20.0.1/yugabyte-2.20.0.1-b1-el8-aarch64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux ARM</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

### Docker

```sh
docker pull yugabytedb/yugabyte:2.20.0.1-b1
```

### Bug fixes

- [[19753](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19753)] [YSQL] Fix tuple IN condition type-checking in the presence of binary columns
- [[19904](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19904)] [DocDB] Fix Master's tablet_overhead mem_tracker zero consumption issue
- [[19911](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19911)] [DocDB] Avoid AdvanceToNextRow seeking past live rows upon detecting a deleted row during distinct iteration
- [[19933](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19933)] [DocDB] Backfill done may not be triggered for empty YCQL table

## v2.20.0.0 - November 13, 2023 {#v2.20.0.0}

**Build:** `2.20.0.0-b76`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.20.0.0/yugabytedb-2.20.0.0-b76-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.20.0.0/yugabytedb-anywhere-2.20.0.0-b76-third-party-licenses.html)

### Downloads

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.20.0.0/yugabyte-2.20.0.0-b76-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-apple"></i>
     <span>macOS</span>
   </a>
 </li>
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.20.0.0/yugabyte-2.20.0.0-b76-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux x86</span>
   </a>
 </li>
 <li>
   <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2.20.0.0/yugabyte-2.20.0.0-b76-el8-aarch64.tar.gz">
     <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
     <span>Linux ARM</span>
   </a>
 </li>
</ul>

### Docker

```sh
docker pull yugabytedb/yugabyte:2.20.0.0-b76
```

### Highlights

* Support for OIDC token-based authentication via Azure AD. This allows YSQL database users to sign in to YugabyteDB universes using their JSON Web Token (JWT) as their password.
* Support for Transactional CDC.
* Wait-on conflict concurrency control with pg_locks. This feature is especially important to users that have workloads with many multi-tablet statements, which may have multiple sessions contending for the same locks concurrently. Wait-on conflict concurrency control helps avoid a deadlock scenario as well as ensure fairness so a session is not starved by new sessions. {{<badge/ea>}}
* Catalog metadata caching to improve YSQL connection scalability and performance with faster warm up times. {{<badge/ea>}}
* Support for ALTER COLUMN TYPE with on-disk changes is now {{<badge/ga>}} for production deployments. This feature expands ALTER TABLE capabilities with a broader range of data type modifications, including changes to the type itself, not just size increments.

### New Features

* [[13686](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/13686)] [DocDB] Introduce the ability to Rollback And Demote an AutoFlag
* [[18748](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/18748)] [CDCSDK] Change default checkpointing type to EXPLICIT while stream creating

### Improvements

* [[4906](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/4906)] [YSQL] Uncouple variables `is_single_row_txn` from `is_non_transactional`
* [[9647](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/9647)] [DocDB] Add metric for the number of running tablet peers on a YB-TServer
* [[12751](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/12751)] [CDCSDK] Made maxAttempts and sleepTime for retrying RPCs configurable in AsyncClient
* [[13358](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/13358)] [YSQL] YSQL DDL Atomicity Part 5: YB-Backup support
* [[16177](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/16177)] [DocDB] Mechanisms to reject table creation requests based on cluster resources, switch the tablet limit gflags from test flags to runtime flags
* [[16785](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/16785)] [DocDB] Add tracking for event stats metrics
* [[17904](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/17904)] [DocDB] Prevent YB-TServer heartbeats to master leader in a different universe
* [[18055](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/18055)] [DocDB] Resume waiters in consistent order across tablets
* [[18335](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/18335)] [DocDB] Reject ChangeConfig requests for sys catalog when another server is amidst transition
* [[18384](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/18384)] [[14114](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/14114)] [DocDB] Throw consistent error on detected deadlocks
* [[18522](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/18522)] [YSQL] Change default unit for `yb_fetch_size_limit` to bytes from kilobytes
* [[18940](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/18940)] [DocDB] Metric to track active WriteQuery objects
* [[19071](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19071)] [DocDB] Add estimated bytes/count to pprof memory pages
* [[19099](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19099)] [YSQL] [DocDB] Adopt the trace correctly in pg_client_session
* [[19203](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19203)] [xCluster] Add xCluster YB-TServer UI page, Switch to throughput in the YB-TServer UI pages from MiBps to KiBps
* [[19221](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19221)] [DocDB] Improved timeout handling for YCQL index scan
* [[19272](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19272)] [DocDB] Clear ResumedWaiterRunner queue during WaitQueue Shutdown
* [[19274](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19274)] [xCluster] Update xCluster apply safe time if there are no active transactions
* [[19292](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19292)] [CDCSDK] Publish snapshot_key in `GetCheckpointResponse` only if it is present
* [[19295](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19295)] [yugabyted] Password Authentication showing enabled in UI even when it's not turned on.
* [[19301](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19301)] [DocDB] Make re-tryable requests mem-tracker metric to be aggregated for Prometheus
* [[19351](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19351)] Harden more YSQL backends manager tests
* [[19353](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19353)] [xCluster] Introduce XClusterManager, Cleanup code on master and XClusterConsumer
* [[19417](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19417)] [DocDB] Support tracing UpdateConsensus API
* [[19454](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19454)] build: Move macOS support off of mac11
* [[19482](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19482)] [CDCSDK] Add GFlag to disable tablet split on tables part of CDCSDK stream
* [[19532](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19532)] [DocDB] Allow Traces to get past Glog's 30k limit
* [YSQL] Disable backends manager by default
* [YSQL] Some extra logging in Postgres
Automatically determine upstream branch name from local branch name

### Bug fixes

* [[17025](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/17025)] [xCluster] Calculate replication lag metrics for split tablet children
* [[17229](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/17229)] [DocDB] Prevent GC of any schema packings referenced in xCluster configuration
* [[18081](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/18081)] [[19535](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19535)] [DocDB] Update TabletState only for tablets that are involved in write, Ignore statuses from old status tablet on promotion
* [[18157](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/18157)] [DocDB] Don't pack rows without liveness column
* [[18540](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/18540)] [xCluster] [TabletSplitting] Fix setting opid in cdc_state for split children
* [[18711](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/18711)] [YSQL] Fix `pg_stat_activity` taking exclusive lock on t-server session
* [[18732](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/18732)] [DocDB] Don't update cache in LookupByIdRpc if the fetched tablet has been split
* [[18909](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/18909)] [YSQL] Fix ALTER TYPE on temporary tables
* [[18911](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/18911)] [[19382](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19382)] [YSQL] Fix ALTER TYPE null constraint violation and failure for range key tables
* [[19021](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19021)] [YSQL] Fix bug in computation of semi/anti join factors during inner unique joins
* [[19033](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19033)] [DocDB] PGSQL operation triggered during parent tablet shutting down may be not retried
* [[19063](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19063)] [YSQL] Fix table rewrite on a table referenced through a partitioned table's foreign key
* [[19308](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19308)] [YSQL] Fix bug where tuple IN filters were not bound to the request
* [[19316](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19316)] [[19314](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19314)] [yugabyted] Bugs regarding `--join` flag provided.
* [[19329](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19329)] [YSQL] Avoid O(n^2) complexity in list traversal while generating ybctid for IN operator
* [[19348](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19348)] [CDCSDK] Only delete removed tablets from `cdc_state` in `CleanUpCDCStreamsMetadata`
* [[19384](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19384)] [YSQL] Fix handling of case where a given RowCompareExpression cannot be bound
* [[19385](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19385)] [CDCSDK] Fix WAL GC issue for tables added after stream creation
* [[19394](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19394)] [CDCSDK] Only populate key to `GetChangesRequest` when it is not null, Set snapshot key from correct parameter in explicit checkpointing
* [[19407](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19407)] [YSQL] Single shard operations should pick read time only after conflict resolution
* [[19414](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19414)] [yugabyted] UI bugs
* [[19434](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19434)] [CDCSDK] Do not completely fail while fetching tablets if one table hits error
* [[19440](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19440)] [DocDB] Fix bug where invalid filter key was passed to Iterator initialization in backwards scans
* [[19450](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19450)] [xCluster] Fix CDCServiceTestMultipleServersOneTablet.TestUpdateLagMetrics
* [[19497](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19497)] [DocDB] Collect end-to-end traces only if the parent trace is non-null
* [[19514](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19514)] [DocDB] Do not ignore replicas on dead YB-TServer in under-replicated endpoint
* [[19523](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19523)] [xCluster] Fix TSAN error in xClusterConfig
* [[19544](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19544)] [DocDB] Hash and Range Indexes grow in size even after rows are deleted, leading to slower queries
* [[19546](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19546)] [DocDB] Add missing call to Prepare in PlayChangeMetadataRequest
* [[19605](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19605)] [YSQL] Fix test failures encountered upon enabling DDL Atomicity
* [[19663](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/19663)] [DocDB] Fix AutoFlagsMiniClusterTest.PromoteOneFlag test
