docs/content/stable/yugabyte-platform/security/enable-encryption-in-transit/_index.md, before:

---
title: Encryption in transit in YugabyteDB Anywhere
headerTitle: Encryption in transit
linkTitle: Encryption in transit
description: Use encryption in transit (TLS) to secure data traffic.
headcontent: Secure intra-node and application traffic
menu:
  stable_yugabyte-platform:
    parent: security
    identifier: enable-encryption-in-transit
    weight: 40
type: indexpage
showRightNav: true
---

YugabyteDB Anywhere allows you to protect data in transit by using the following:

- Node-to-Node TLS to encrypt intra-node communication between YB-Master and YB-TServer nodes.
- Client-to-Node TLS to encrypt communication between a universe and clients. This includes applications, shells (ysqlsh, ycqlsh, psql, and so on), and other tools, using the YSQL and YCQL APIs.

## Manage certificates

Use YugabyteDB Anywhere to manage certificates used for encryption in transit.

{{<index/block>}}

  {{<index/item
    title="Auto-generated certificates"
    body="YugabyteDB Anywhere can create and manage universe certificates."
    href="auto-certificate/"
    icon="fa-thin fa-certificate">}}

  {{<index/item
    title="Add certificates"
    body="Upload your own certificates to secure data transfer on your universes."
    href="add-certificate-self/"
    icon="fa-thin fa-file-certificate">}}

  {{<index/item
    title="Rotate certificates"
    body="Update the certificates on universes when they expire."
    href="rotate-certificates/"
    icon="fa-thin fa-rotate">}}

  {{<index/item
    title="Trust Store"
    body="Add certificates to the YugabyteDB Anywhere Trust Store to validate connections from other services."
    href="trust-store/"
    icon="fa-thin fa-shop-lock">}}

{{</index/block>}}

## Enable encryption in transit

You enable Node-to-Node and Client-to-Node encryption in transit when you [create a universe](../../create-deployments/create-universe-multi-zone/).

You can also enable and disable encryption in transit for an existing universe as follows:

1. Navigate to your universe.
1. Click **Actions > Edit Security > Encryption in-Transit** to open the **Manage encryption in transit** dialog.
1. Enable or disable the **Enable encryption in transit for this Universe** option.
1. Click **Apply**.

### Enforce TLS versions

As TLS 1.0 and 1.1 are no longer accepted by PCI compliance, and considering significant vulnerabilities around these versions of the protocol, it is recommended that you migrate to TLS 1.2 or later versions.

You can set the TLS version for node-to-node and client-node communication. To enforce TLS 1.2, add the following flag for YB-TServer:

```shell
ssl_protocols = tls12
```

To enforce the minimum TLS version of 1.2, you need to specify all available subsequent versions for YB-TServer, as follows:

```shell
ssl_protocols = tls12,tls13
```

In addition, as the `ssl_protocols` setting does not propagate to PostgreSQL, it is recommended that you specify the minimum TLS version (`ssl_min_protocol_version`) for PostgreSQL by setting the following YB-TServer flag:

```shell
--ysql_pg_conf_csv="ssl_min_protocol_version='TLSv1.2'"
```

## Learn more

- [Securing YugabyteDB: Server-to-Server Encryption in Transit](https://www.yugabyte.com/blog/yugabytedb-server-to-server-encryption/)
- [Securing YugabyteDB: SQL Client-to-Server Encryption in Transit](https://www.yugabyte.com/blog/securing-yugabytedb-client-to-server-encryption/)
- [Securing YugabyteDB: CQL Client-to-Server Encryption in Transit](https://www.yugabyte.com/blog/securing-yugabytedb-part-3-cql-client-server-encryption-transit/)

Commit message:

[BACKPORT pg15-cherrypicks] all: Bulk port from master - 90
Summary:
 bb74fb62a3 [#22037] docdb: Remove log spam generated by deleted colocated tables
 b401ab5b07 [PLAT-14819] Set optimized mem ratios and enable enforcement of tablet limits based on resources
 2079a24fa7 DocDB: Fix upgrade-test builds.xml
 739d995def [DOC-458][2024.1.2] View EIT CA cert details (#23641)
 ba51535762 Change flags list from table to sections (#23725)
 67026c246f [#22772] YSQL: Fix CBO bug in the presence of hash indexes with included columns
 b27047dc9a [PLAT-14786] Add support to node_agent install to use bind ip and node_external_fqdn
 f6243f829b [#23739] docdb: Add field transaction_aware back to master_backup.proto
 7912fac931 [doc][yba] Replicated YBA backup (#23398)
 b2b2dcc9e1 [#23745] xCluster: Fix file permissions for ddl replication test files
 80ea59c805 [#23719] xCluster: Handle leader moves during checkpoint
 eea248225a [DOC-457] Added known issues to Manual review guideline (#23634)
 7b7a7cf525 [PLAT-15113]: Prevent db scoped replication until universe is upgraded to mini supported version
 31a6d4ffe6 [#23708] YSQL: Fix bug in create colocated table
 eb963b2c73 [doc] Troubleshoot link fix (#23746)
 439f4179d9 [#23425] YSQL: Run the pg regress tests with connection manager
 de91c356d8 CLI integration edits (#23750)
 a0264d759d [#19294] CDCSDK: Refactor reading of WAL messages for consistent CDC
 41629e4251 [#23756] Add sleep after pg_yb_catalog_version bump up when connection manager is enabled
 77e4ad2102 [PLAT-14806][PLAT-14807][YBA CLI]Encyrption At Rest list describe and delete
 aa31795df4 [Docs] Add Rudderstack Integration (#23207)

Test Plan: Jenkins: rebase: pg15-cherrypicks

Reviewers: jason, tfoucher

Differential Revision: https://phorge.dev.yugabyte.com/D37717

docs/content/stable/yugabyte-platform/security/enable-encryption-in-transit/_index.md, after:

---
title: Encryption in transit in YugabyteDB Anywhere
headerTitle: Encryption in transit
linkTitle: Encryption in transit
description: Use encryption in transit (TLS) to secure data traffic.
headcontent: Secure intra-node and application traffic
menu:
  stable_yugabyte-platform:
    parent: security
    identifier: enable-encryption-in-transit
    weight: 40
type: indexpage
showRightNav: true
---

YugabyteDB Anywhere allows you to protect data in transit by using the following:

- Node-to-Node TLS to encrypt intra-node communication between YB-Master and YB-TServer nodes.
- Client-to-Node TLS to encrypt communication between a universe and clients. This includes applications, shells (ysqlsh, ycqlsh, psql, and so on), and other tools, using the YSQL and YCQL APIs.

## Manage certificates

YugabyteDB Anywhere uses TLS certificates to encrypt and validate connections. These certificates can be automatically generated and managed by YugabyteDB Anywhere, or you can add your own custom certificates.

Navigate to **Integrations > Security > Encryption in Transit** to view and add the certificates used for encryption in transit.

To view certificate details, click **Show details** for the certificate you want to view.

{{<index/block>}}

  {{<index/item
    title="Auto-generated certificates"
    body="YugabyteDB Anywhere can create and manage universe certificates."
    href="auto-certificate/"
    icon="fa-thin fa-certificate">}}

  {{<index/item
    title="Add certificates"
    body="Upload your own certificates to secure data transfer on your universes."
    href="add-certificate-self/"
    icon="fa-thin fa-file-certificate">}}

  {{<index/item
    title="Rotate certificates"
    body="Update the certificates on universes when they expire."
    href="rotate-certificates/"
    icon="fa-thin fa-rotate">}}

  {{<index/item
    title="Trust Store"
    body="Add certificates to the YugabyteDB Anywhere Trust Store to validate connections from other services."
    href="trust-store/"
    icon="fa-thin fa-shop-lock">}}

{{</index/block>}}

## Enable encryption in transit

You enable Node-to-Node and Client-to-Node encryption in transit when you [create a universe](../../create-deployments/create-universe-multi-zone/).

You can also enable and disable encryption in transit for an existing universe as follows:

1. Navigate to your universe.
1. Click **Actions > Edit Security > Encryption in-Transit** to open the **Manage encryption in transit** dialog.
1. Enable or disable the **Enable encryption in transit for this Universe** option.
1. Click **Apply**.

### Enforce TLS versions

As TLS 1.0 and 1.1 are no longer accepted by PCI compliance, and considering significant vulnerabilities around these versions of the protocol, it is recommended that you migrate to TLS 1.2 or later versions.

You can set the TLS version for node-to-node and client-node communication. To enforce TLS 1.2, add the following flag for YB-TServer:

```shell
ssl_protocols = tls12
```

To enforce the minimum TLS version of 1.2, you need to specify all available subsequent versions for YB-TServer, as follows:

```shell
ssl_protocols = tls12,tls13
```

In addition, as the `ssl_protocols` setting does not propagate to PostgreSQL, it is recommended that you specify the minimum TLS version (`ssl_min_protocol_version`) for PostgreSQL by setting the following YB-TServer flag:

```shell
--ysql_pg_conf_csv="ssl_min_protocol_version='TLSv1.2'"
```

## Learn more

- [Securing YugabyteDB: Server-to-Server Encryption in Transit](https://www.yugabyte.com/blog/yugabytedb-server-to-server-encryption/)
- [Securing YugabyteDB: SQL Client-to-Server Encryption in Transit](https://www.yugabyte.com/blog/securing-yugabytedb-client-to-server-encryption/)
- [Securing YugabyteDB: CQL Client-to-Server Encryption in Transit](https://www.yugabyte.com/blog/securing-yugabytedb-part-3-cql-client-server-encryption-transit/)
