docs/content/stable/yugabyte-platform/security/enable-encryption-in-transit/add-certificate-self.md, before:

---
title: Add self-signed certificates to YugabyteDB Anywhere
headerTitle: Add certificates
linkTitle: Add certificates
description: Add self-signed certificates to YugabyteDB Anywhere.
headcontent: Use your own certificates for encryption in transit
menu:
  stable_yugabyte-platform:
    parent: enable-encryption-in-transit
    identifier: add-certificate-1-self
    weight: 20
type: docs
---

{{<tabs>}}
{{<tabitem href="../add-certificate-self/" text="Self-Signed" active="true" >}}
{{<tabitem href="../add-certificate-ca/" text="CA-Signed" >}}
{{<tabitem href="../add-certificate-hashicorp/" text="Hashicorp Vault" >}}
{{<tabitem href="../add-certificate-kubernetes/" text="Kubernetes cert-manager" >}}
{{</tabs>}}

Instead of using YugabyteDB Anywhere-provided certificates, you can use your own self-signed certificates that you upload to YugabyteDB Anywhere.

## Prerequisites

The certificates must meet the following criteria:

- Be in the `.crt` format and the private key must be in the `.pem` format, with both of these artifacts available for upload.

YugabyteDB Anywhere produces the node (leaf) certificates from the uploaded certificates and copies the certificate chain, leaf certificate, and private key to the nodes in the cluster.

### Convert certificates and keys from PKCS12 to PEM format

If your certificates and keys are stored in the PKCS12 format, you can convert them to the PEM format using OpenSSL.

Start by extracting the certificate via the following command:

```sh
openssl pkcs12 -in cert-archive.pfx -out cert.pem -clcerts -nokeys
```

To extract the key and write it to the PEM file unencrypted, execute the following command:

```sh
openssl pkcs12 -in cert-archive.pfx -out key.pem -nocerts -nodes
```

If the key is protected by a passphrase in the PKCS12 archive, you are prompted for the passphrase.

## Add self-signed certificates

To add self-signed certificates to YugabyteDB Anywhere:

1. Navigate to **Integrations > Security > Encryption in Transit**.

1. Click **Add Certificate** to open the **Add Certificate** dialog.

1. Select **Self Signed**.

    ![Add Self Signed certificate](/images/yp/encryption-in-transit/add-self-cert.png)

1. In the **Certificate Name** field, enter a meaningful name for your certificate.

1. Click **Upload Root Certificate**, then browse to the root certificate file (`<file-name>.crt`) and upload it.

1. Click **Upload Key**, then browse to the root certificate file (`<file-name>.key`) and upload it.

1. In the **Expiration Date** field, specify the expiration date of the root certificate. To find this information, execute the `openssl x509 -in <root-crt-file-path> -text -noout` command and note the **Validity Not After** date.

1. Click **Add** to make the certificate available.

## Validate certificates

When configuring and using certificates, SSL issues may occasionally arise. You can validate your certificates and keys as follows:

- Verify that the CA CRT and CA private key match by executing the following commands:

    ```shell
    openssl rsa -noout -modulus -in ca.key | openssl md5
    openssl x509 -noout -modulus -in ca.crt | openssl md5

    \# outputs should match
    ```

- Verify that the CA CRT is actually a certificate authority by executing the following command:

    ```shell
    openssl x509 -text -noout -in ca.crt

    \# Look for fields

    X509v3 Basic Constraints:

      CA:TRUE
    ```

- Verify that certificates and keys are in PEM format (as opposed to the DER or other format). If these artifacts are not in the PEM format and you require assistance with converting them or identifying the format, consult [Converting certificates](https://support.globalsign.com/ssl/ssl-certificates-installation/converting-certificates-openssl).

- Ensure that the private key does not have a passphrase associated with it. For information on how to identify this condition, see [Decrypt an encrypted SSL RSA private key](https://techjourney.net/how-to-decrypt-an-enrypted-ssl-rsa-private-key-pem-key/).

Commit message:

[BACKPORT pg15-cherrypicks] all: Bulk port from master - 90
Summary:
 bb74fb62a3 [#22037] docdb: Remove log spam generated by deleted colocated tables
 b401ab5b07 [PLAT-14819] Set optimized mem ratios and enable enforcement of tablet limits based on resources
 2079a24fa7 DocDB: Fix upgrade-test builds.xml
 739d995def [DOC-458][2024.1.2] View EIT CA cert details (#23641)
 ba51535762 Change flags list from table to sections (#23725)
 67026c246f [#22772] YSQL: Fix CBO bug in the presence of hash indexes with included columns
 b27047dc9a [PLAT-14786] Add support to node_agent install to use bind ip and node_external_fqdn
 f6243f829b [#23739] docdb: Add field transaction_aware back to master_backup.proto
 7912fac931 [doc][yba] Replicated YBA backup (#23398)
 b2b2dcc9e1 [#23745] xCluster: Fix file permissions for ddl replication test files
 80ea59c805 [#23719] xCluster: Handle leader moves during checkpoint
 eea248225a [DOC-457] Added known issues to Manual review guideline (#23634)
 7b7a7cf525 [PLAT-15113]: Prevent db scoped replication until universe is upgraded to mini supported version
 31a6d4ffe6 [#23708] YSQL: Fix bug in create colocated table
 eb963b2c73 [doc] Troubleshoot link fix (#23746)
 439f4179d9 [#23425] YSQL: Run the pg regress tests with connection manager
 de91c356d8 CLI integration edits (#23750)
 a0264d759d [#19294] CDCSDK: Refactor reading of WAL messages for consistent CDC
 41629e4251 [#23756] Add sleep after pg_yb_catalog_version bump up when connection manager is enabled
 77e4ad2102 [PLAT-14806][PLAT-14807][YBA CLI]Encyrption At Rest list describe and delete
 aa31795df4 [Docs] Add Rudderstack Integration (#23207)

Test Plan: Jenkins: rebase: pg15-cherrypicks

Reviewers: jason, tfoucher

Differential Revision: https://phorge.dev.yugabyte.com/D37717

docs/content/stable/yugabyte-platform/security/enable-encryption-in-transit/add-certificate-self.md, after:

---
title: Add self-signed certificates to YugabyteDB Anywhere
headerTitle: Add certificates
linkTitle: Add certificates
description: Add self-signed certificates to YugabyteDB Anywhere.
headcontent: Use your own certificates for encryption in transit
menu:
  stable_yugabyte-platform:
    parent: enable-encryption-in-transit
    identifier: add-certificate-1-self
    weight: 20
type: docs
---

{{<tabs>}}
{{<tabitem href="../add-certificate-self/" text="Self-Signed" active="true" >}}
{{<tabitem href="../add-certificate-ca/" text="CA-Signed" >}}
{{<tabitem href="../add-certificate-hashicorp/" text="Hashicorp Vault" >}}
{{<tabitem href="../add-certificate-kubernetes/" text="Kubernetes cert-manager" >}}
{{</tabs>}}

Instead of using YugabyteDB Anywhere-provided certificates, you can use your own self-signed certificates that you upload to YugabyteDB Anywhere.

## Prerequisites

The certificates must meet the following criteria:

- Be in the `.crt` format and the private key must be in the `.pem` format, with both of these artifacts available for upload.

YugabyteDB Anywhere produces the node (leaf) certificates from the uploaded certificates and copies the certificate chain, leaf certificate, and private key to the nodes in the cluster.

### Convert certificates and keys from PKCS12 to PEM format

If your certificates and keys are stored in the PKCS12 format, you can convert them to the PEM format using OpenSSL.

Start by extracting the certificate via the following command:

```sh
openssl pkcs12 -in cert-archive.pfx -out cert.pem -clcerts -nokeys
```

To extract the key and write it to the PEM file unencrypted, execute the following command:

```sh
openssl pkcs12 -in cert-archive.pfx -out key.pem -nocerts -nodes
```

If the key is protected by a passphrase in the PKCS12 archive, you are prompted for the passphrase.

## Add self-signed certificates

To add self-signed certificates to YugabyteDB Anywhere:

1. Navigate to **Integrations > Security > Encryption in Transit**.

1. Click **Add Certificate** to open the **Add Certificate** dialog.

1. Select **Self Signed**.

    ![Add Self Signed certificate](/images/yp/encryption-in-transit/add-self-cert.png)

1. In the **Certificate Name** field, enter a meaningful name for your certificate.

1. Click **Upload Root Certificate**, then browse to the root certificate file (`<file-name>.crt`) and upload it.

1. Click **Upload Key**, then browse to the root certificate file (`<file-name>.key`) and upload it.

1. In the **Expiration Date** field, specify the expiration date of the root certificate. To find this information, execute the `openssl x509 -in <root-crt-file-path> -text -noout` command and note the **Validity Not After** date.

1. Click **Add** to make the certificate available.

To view the certificate details, navigate to **Integrations > Security > Encryption in Transit**, find the certificate in the list, and click **Show details**.

## Validate certificates

When configuring and using certificates, SSL issues may occasionally arise. You can validate your certificates and keys as follows:

- Verify that the CA CRT and CA private key match by executing the following commands:

    ```shell
    openssl rsa -noout -modulus -in ca.key | openssl md5
    openssl x509 -noout -modulus -in ca.crt | openssl md5

    \# outputs should match
    ```

- Verify that the CA CRT is actually a certificate authority by executing the following command:

    ```shell
    openssl x509 -text -noout -in ca.crt

    \# Look for fields

    X509v3 Basic Constraints:

      CA:TRUE
    ```

- Verify that certificates and keys are in PEM format (as opposed to the DER or other format). If these artifacts are not in the PEM format and you require assistance with converting them or identifying the format, consult [Converting certificates](https://support.globalsign.com/ssl/ssl-certificates-installation/converting-certificates-openssl).

- Ensure that the private key does not have a passphrase associated with it. For information on how to identify this condition, see [Decrypt an encrypted SSL RSA private key](https://techjourney.net/how-to-decrypt-an-enrypted-ssl-rsa-private-key-pem-key/).
