docs/content/v2.18/yugabyte-platform/administer-yugabyte-platform/back-up-restore-yp.md, before:

---
title: Back up and restore YugabyteDB Anywhere
headerTitle: Back up and restore YugabyteDB Anywhere
linkTitle: Back up YugabyteDB Anywhere
description: Use a script to back up and restore YugabyteDB Anywhere.
menu:
  v2.18_yugabyte-platform:
    identifier: back-up-restore-yp
    parent: administer-yugabyte-platform
    weight: 30
type: docs
---

<ul class="nav nav-tabs-alt nav-tabs-yb">
  <li>
    <a href="../back-up-restore-installer/" class="nav-link">
      <i class="fa-solid fa-building"></i>
      YBA Installer</a>
  </li>
  <li >
    <a href="../back-up-restore-yp/" class="nav-link active">
      <i class="fa-solid fa-cloud"></i>
      Replicated
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="../back-up-restore-k8s/" class="nav-link">
      <i class="fa-regular fa-dharmachakra" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      Kubernetes
    </a>
  </li>

</ul>

YugabyteDB Anywhere installations include configuration settings, certificates and keys, as well as other components required for creating and managing YugabyteDB universes.

You can use the YugabyteDB Anywhere `yb_platform_backup.sh` script to back up an existing YugabyteDB Anywhere server and restore it, when needed, for disaster recovery or migrating to a new server.

## Prerequisites

To perform backups and restores in a Replicated environment, you must have a permission to run `docker` commands. This means that on systems with the default `docker` configuration, the `yb_platform_backup.sh` backup and restore script must be run using `sudo` or run as the `root` user (or another member of the `docker` group).

## Download the script

Download the version of the backup script that corresponds to the version of YugabyteDB Anywhere that you are backing up and restoring.

For example, if you are running version {{< yb-version version="v2.18">}}, you can copy the `yb_platform_backup.sh` script from the `yugabyte-db` repository using the following `wget` command:

```sh
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/v{{< yb-version version="v2.18">}}/managed/devops/bin/yb_platform_backup.sh
```

If you are running a different version of YugabyteDB Anywhere, replace the version number in the command with the correct version number.

## Back up a YugabyteDB Anywhere server

To back up a YugabyteDB Anywhere server, perform the following:

1. Run the `yb_platform_backup.sh` script using the `backup` command, as follows:

    ```sh
    ./yb_platform_backup.sh create --output <output_path> [--data_dir <data_dir>] [--exclude_prometheus]
    ```

    The `create` command runs the backup of the YugabyteDB Anywhere server.

    `output_path` specifies the location for the `.tar` output file.

    `data_dir` is optional. It specifies the data directory to be backed up. Default is `/opt/yugabyte`.

    `--exclude_prometheus` is optional. It excludes Prometheus metrics from the backup.

1. Verify that the backup `.tar` file, with the correct timestamp, is in the specified output directory.

1. Upload the backup file to your preferred storage location and delete it from the local disk.

## Restore a YugabyteDB Anywhere server

To restore the YugabyteDB Anywhere content from your saved backup, perform the following:

1. Copy the backup `.tar` file from your storage location.

1. Run the `yb_platform_backup.sh` script using the `restore` command:

    ```sh
    ./yb_platform_backup.sh restore --input <input_path> [--destination <destination>]
    ```

    The `restore` command restores the YugabyteDB Anywhere content.

    `input_path` is the path to the input `.tar` file.

    `destination` is optional. It specifies the output location for data. Default is `/opt/yugabyte`.

Upon completion of the preceding steps, the restored YugabyteDB Anywhere is ready to continue managing your universes and clusters.

Commit message:

[BACKPORT pg15-cherrypicks] all: Bulk port from master - 90
Summary:
 bb74fb62a3 [#22037] docdb: Remove log spam generated by deleted colocated tables
 b401ab5b07 [PLAT-14819] Set optimized mem ratios and enable enforcement of tablet limits based on resources
 2079a24fa7 DocDB: Fix upgrade-test builds.xml
 739d995def [DOC-458][2024.1.2] View EIT CA cert details (#23641)
 ba51535762 Change flags list from table to sections (#23725)
 67026c246f [#22772] YSQL: Fix CBO bug in the presence of hash indexes with included columns
 b27047dc9a [PLAT-14786] Add support to node_agent install to use bind ip and node_external_fqdn
 f6243f829b [#23739] docdb: Add field transaction_aware back to master_backup.proto
 7912fac931 [doc][yba] Replicated YBA backup (#23398)
 b2b2dcc9e1 [#23745] xCluster: Fix file permissions for ddl replication test files
 80ea59c805 [#23719] xCluster: Handle leader moves during checkpoint
 eea248225a [DOC-457] Added known issues to Manual review guideline (#23634)
 7b7a7cf525 [PLAT-15113]: Prevent db scoped replication until universe is upgraded to mini supported version
 31a6d4ffe6 [#23708] YSQL: Fix bug in create colocated table
 eb963b2c73 [doc] Troubleshoot link fix (#23746)
 439f4179d9 [#23425] YSQL: Run the pg regress tests with connection manager
 de91c356d8 CLI integration edits (#23750)
 a0264d759d [#19294] CDCSDK: Refactor reading of WAL messages for consistent CDC
 41629e4251 [#23756] Add sleep after pg_yb_catalog_version bump up when connection manager is enabled
 77e4ad2102 [PLAT-14806][PLAT-14807][YBA CLI]Encyrption At Rest list describe and delete
 aa31795df4 [Docs] Add Rudderstack Integration (#23207)

Test Plan: Jenkins: rebase: pg15-cherrypicks

Reviewers: jason, tfoucher

Differential Revision: https://phorge.dev.yugabyte.com/D37717

docs/content/v2.18/yugabyte-platform/administer-yugabyte-platform/back-up-restore-yp.md, after:

---
title: Back up and restore YugabyteDB Anywhere
headerTitle: Back up and restore YugabyteDB Anywhere
linkTitle: Back up YugabyteDB Anywhere
description: Use a script to back up and restore YugabyteDB Anywhere.
menu:
  v2.18_yugabyte-platform:
    identifier: back-up-restore-yp
    parent: administer-yugabyte-platform
    weight: 30
type: docs
---

<ul class="nav nav-tabs-alt nav-tabs-yb">
  <li>
    <a href="../back-up-restore-installer/" class="nav-link">
      <i class="fa-solid fa-building"></i>
      YBA Installer</a>
  </li>
  <li >
    <a href="../back-up-restore-yp/" class="nav-link active">
      <i class="fa-solid fa-cloud"></i>
      Replicated
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="../back-up-restore-k8s/" class="nav-link">
      <i class="fa-regular fa-dharmachakra" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      Kubernetes
    </a>
  </li>

</ul>

YugabyteDB Anywhere installations include configuration settings, certificates and keys, as well as other components required for creating and managing YugabyteDB universes.

You can use the YugabyteDB Anywhere `yb_platform_backup.sh` script to back up an existing YugabyteDB Anywhere server and restore it, when needed, for disaster recovery or migrating to a new server.

## Prerequisites

To perform backups and restores in a Replicated environment, you must have a permission to run `docker` commands. This means that on systems with the default `docker` configuration, the `yb_platform_backup.sh` backup and restore script must be run using `sudo` or run as the `root` user (or another member of the `docker` group).

## Download the script

Download the version of the backup script that corresponds to the version of YugabyteDB Anywhere that you are backing up and restoring.

For example, if you are running version {{< yb-version version="v2.18">}}, you can copy the `yb_platform_backup.sh` script from the `yugabyte-db` repository using the following `wget` command:

```sh
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/v{{< yb-version version="v2.18">}}/managed/devops/bin/yb_platform_backup.sh
```

If you are running a different version of YugabyteDB Anywhere, replace the version number in the command with the correct version number.

## Back up a YugabyteDB Anywhere server

To back up a YugabyteDB Anywhere server, perform the following:

1. Run the `yb_platform_backup.sh` script using the `backup` command, as follows:

    ```sh
    ./yb_platform_backup.sh create --output <output_path> [--data_dir <data_dir>] [--exclude_prometheus]
    ```

    The `create` command runs the backup of the YugabyteDB Anywhere server.

    `--output` specifies the location (absolute path) for the `.tar` output file.

    `--data_dir` specifies the data directory to be backed up. Default is `/opt/yugabyte`. Use this flag if YugabyteDB Anywhere is not installed in the default location.

    `--exclude_prometheus` excludes Prometheus metrics from the backup. Optional.

    {{<note title="Note">}}

If you are using versions 2.18.9, 2.20.6, or 2024.1.2 or earlier, add the `--disable_version_check` flag if you are specifying a custom data directory (that is, you are not using `/opt/yugabyte`).

    {{</note>}}

1. Verify that the backup `.tar` file, with the correct timestamp, is in the specified output directory.

1. Upload the backup file to your preferred storage location and delete it from the local disk.

## Restore a YugabyteDB Anywhere server

To restore the YugabyteDB Anywhere content from your saved backup, perform the following:

1. Copy the backup `.tar` file from your storage location.

1. Run the `yb_platform_backup.sh` script using the `restore` command:

    ```sh
    ./yb_platform_backup.sh restore --input <input_path> [--destination <destination>]
    ```

    The `restore` command restores the YugabyteDB Anywhere content.

    `input_path` is the path to the input `.tar` file.

    `destination` is optional. It specifies the output location for data. Default is `/opt/yugabyte`.

Upon completion of the preceding steps, the restored YugabyteDB Anywhere is ready to continue managing your universes and clusters.
