docs/content/v2.20/yugabyte-platform/administer-yugabyte-platform/oidc-authentication.md, before:

---
title: Enable YugabyteDB Anywhere SSO authentication via OIDC
headerTitle: Configure authentication for YugabyteDB Anywhere
description: Use OIDC to enable SSO for YugabyteDB Anywhere.
headcontent: Manage YugabyteDB Anywhere users using OIDC
linkTitle: Configure authentication
menu:
  v2.20_yugabyte-platform:
    identifier: oidc-authentication
    parent: administer-yugabyte-platform
    weight: 20
type: docs
---

<ul class="nav nav-tabs-alt nav-tabs-yb">
  <li >
    <a href="../oidc-authentication/" class="nav-link active">
      <i class="fa-solid fa-cubes"></i>
      OIDC
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="../ldap-authentication/" class="nav-link">
      <i class="fa-solid fa-cubes" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      LDAP
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

You can configure YugabyteDB Anywhere to use OpenID Connect (OIDC) for single sign-on (SSO) authentication to access to your YugabyteDB Anywhere instance.

OIDC is an authentication protocol that allows client applications to confirm the user's identity via authentication by an authorization server.

When OIDC is enabled, users are presented with the following options when signing in to YBA:

- **Login with SSO** redirects the user to the appropriate identity provider's sign in mechanism.
- **Super Admin Login** allows the user to sign in to YugabyteDB Anywhere as a local super admin.

To configure YugabyteDB Anywhere for OIDC, you need to be signed in as a Super Admin.

**Learn more**

- For information on configuring a YugabyteDB Anywhere universe to use OIDC-based authentication using Azure AD as the IdP, refer to [OIDC authentication with Azure AD](../../security/authentication/oidc-authentication-aad/).
- For information on how to add users, see [Create, modify, and delete users](../anywhere-rbac/#create-modify-and-delete-users). The email ID that you enter in the **Add User** dialog must be registered with the identity provider, and the role must reflect the user's role on YugabyteDB Anywhere.

## Enable OIDC for YugabyteDB Anywhere

YBA accepts OIDC configuration either using a discovery URL that points to the [OpenID Provider Configuration Document](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html#ProviderConfig) for your provider, or by uploading the document directly. The configuration document contains key-value pairs with details about the OIDC provider's configuration, including uniform resource identifiers of the authorization, token, revocation, user information, and public-keys endpoints. YugabyteDB Anywhere uses the metadata to discover the URLs to use for authentication and the authentication service's public signing keys.

For air-gapped installations, where YBA does not have access to the discovery URL, you need to explicitly provide the configuration document.

You configure OIDC as follows:

1. Navigate to **Admin > Access Management > User Authentication > OIDC Configuration**.

1. Select **OIDC Enabled** and complete the fields shown in the following illustration:

    ![OIDC authentication](/images/yp/oidc-auth-220.png)

    - In the **Client ID** field, enter the unique identifier that you provided when you manually created the client application in the identity provider.
    - In the **Client Secret** field, enter the password or secret for authenticating your Yugabyte client application with your identity provider.
    - Use the **Discovery URL** field to provide a URL for the discovery document that contains OIDC configuration for the identity provider. The discovery document is a JSON file stored in a well-known location.

        [Google OIDC discovery endpoint](https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/oauth2/openid-connect#an-id-tokens-payload) is an example of such file. For most identity providers, `/.well-known/openid-configuration` is appended to the issuer to generate the metadata URL for OIDC specifications.

    - In the **Scope** field, enter your identity provider OIDC scope that is allowed to be requested. This field accepts a space-separated list of values. If left blank, all scopes will be considered.
    - In the **Email Attribute** field, enter the OIDC scope containing the user email identifier. This field accepts a case-sensitive custom configuration. Typically, this field is left blank.
    - If you have an airgapped installation, where YBA cannot access the Discovery URL, provide the OIDC configuration for the identity provider directly.

        To do this, click **Configure OIDC Provider Metadata** and paste the OIDC configuration document from your identity provider (in JSON format) into the field.

1. Click **Save**.

Commit message:

[BACKPORT pg15-cherrypicks] all: Bulk port from master - 57
Summary:
 7786cf7b85 [PLAT-12072][Platform] Implement Task Details Drawer
 95fb1884e0 [PLAT-14225] Implement v2 Group Mapping APIs
 8e33f45c95 [PLAT-12085]: Modify the confirm modal box depending on the type of edit universe op
 87fe4b8fce [doc][yba] add OIDC URI example (#23222)
 c212f4bd94 [docs] Logical replication explore docs sections (#23231)
 0619b50d35 CDC Docs changes (#23234)
 4823cd42ba [doc][yba] Encryption in transit update (#23027)
 c5dd61b68c [PLAT-14344] Support Premium SSD V2 disks in azure YBA managed provider
 4ca56cfe27 [PLAT-6774] Enable changing RF for existing universe
 4af129fe08 [PLAT-14685] - improvement : Disable Gflags change if gflags belongs to ENHANCED_POSTGRES_COMPATIBILITY group

Test Plan: Jenkins: rebase: pg15-cherrypicks

Reviewers: jason, tfoucher

Tags: #jenkins-ready

Differential Revision: https://phorge.dev.yugabyte.com/D36695

docs/content/v2.20/yugabyte-platform/administer-yugabyte-platform/oidc-authentication.md, after:

---
title: Enable YugabyteDB Anywhere SSO authentication via OIDC
headerTitle: Configure authentication for YugabyteDB Anywhere
description: Use OIDC to enable SSO for YugabyteDB Anywhere.
headcontent: Manage YugabyteDB Anywhere users using OIDC
linkTitle: Configure authentication
menu:
  v2.20_yugabyte-platform:
    identifier: oidc-authentication
    parent: administer-yugabyte-platform
    weight: 20
type: docs
---

<ul class="nav nav-tabs-alt nav-tabs-yb">
  <li >
    <a href="../oidc-authentication/" class="nav-link active">
      <i class="fa-solid fa-cubes"></i>
      OIDC
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="../ldap-authentication/" class="nav-link">
      <i class="fa-solid fa-cubes" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      LDAP
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

You can configure YugabyteDB Anywhere to use OpenID Connect (OIDC) for single sign-on (SSO) authentication to access to your YugabyteDB Anywhere instance.

OIDC is an authentication protocol that allows client applications to confirm the user's identity via authentication by an authorization server.

When OIDC is enabled, users are presented with the following options when signing in to YBA:

- **Login with SSO** redirects the user to the appropriate identity provider's sign in mechanism.
- **Super Admin Login** allows the user to sign in to YugabyteDB Anywhere as a local super admin.

To configure YugabyteDB Anywhere for OIDC, you need to be signed in as a Super Admin.

**Learn more**

- For information on configuring a YugabyteDB Anywhere universe to use OIDC-based authentication using Azure AD as the IdP, refer to [OIDC authentication with Azure AD](../../security/authentication/oidc-authentication-aad/).
- For information on how to add users, see [Create, modify, and delete users](../anywhere-rbac/#create-modify-and-delete-users). The email ID that you enter in the **Add User** dialog must be registered with the identity provider, and the role must reflect the user's role on YugabyteDB Anywhere.

## Enable OIDC for YugabyteDB Anywhere

YBA accepts OIDC configuration either using a discovery URL that points to the [OpenID Provider Configuration Document](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html#ProviderConfig) for your provider, or by uploading the document directly. The configuration document contains key-value pairs with details about the OIDC provider's configuration, including uniform resource identifiers of the authorization, token, revocation, user information, and public-keys endpoints. YugabyteDB Anywhere uses the metadata to discover the URLs to use for authentication and the authentication service's public signing keys.

For air-gapped installations, where YBA does not have access to the discovery URL, you need to explicitly provide the configuration document.

You configure OIDC as follows:

1. Navigate to **Admin > Access Management > User Authentication > OIDC Configuration**.

1. Select **OIDC Enabled** and complete the fields shown in the following illustration:

    ![OIDC authentication](/images/yp/oidc-auth-220.png)

    - In the **Client ID** field, enter the unique identifier that you provided when you manually created the client application in the identity provider.
    - In the **Client Secret** field, enter the password or secret for authenticating your Yugabyte client application with your identity provider.
    - Use the **Discovery URL** field to provide a URL for the discovery document that contains OIDC configuration for the identity provider. The discovery document is a JSON file stored in a well-known location.

        [Google OIDC discovery endpoint](https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/oauth2/openid-connect#an-id-tokens-payload) is an example of such file. For most identity providers, `/.well-known/openid-configuration` is appended to the issuer to generate the metadata URL for OIDC specifications.

        If you have an airgapped installation, where YugabyteDB Anywhere cannot access the Discovery URL, provide the OIDC configuration for the identity provider directly.

        To do this, click **Configure OIDC Provider Metadata** and paste the OIDC configuration document from your identity provider (in JSON format) into the field.

    - In the **Scope** field, enter your identity provider OIDC scope that is allowed to be requested. This field accepts a space-separated list of values. If left blank, all scopes will be considered.
    - In the **Email Attribute** field, enter the OIDC scope containing the user email identifier. This field accepts a case-sensitive custom configuration. Typically, this field is left blank.
    - If you have configured OIDC to use [refresh tokens](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#RefreshTokens), in the **Refresh Token URL** field, enter the URL of the refresh token endpoint.
    - If you have configured [OIDC enhancements](../../security/authentication/oidc-authentication-aad/#enable-oidc-enhancements), you can select the **Display JWT token on login** option to allow users to access their JWT from the YugabyteDB Anywhere sign in page. See [Set up OIDC with Azure AD on YugabyteDB Anywhere](../../security/authentication/oidc-authentication-aad/#set-up-oidc-with-azure-ad-on-yugabytedb-anywhere).

1. Click **Save**.
