docs/content/v2024.1/yugabyte-platform/security/enable-encryption-in-transit/rotate-certificates.md, before:

---
title: Rotate certificates on YugabyteDB Anywhere
headerTitle: Rotate certificates
linkTitle: Rotate certificates
description: Rotate certificates on YugabyteDB Anywhere.
headcontent: Rotate certificates used by a universe
menu:
  v2024.1_yugabyte-platform:
    parent: enable-encryption-in-transit
    identifier: rotate-certificates
    weight: 30
type: docs
---

YugabyteDB Anywhere will alert you 30 days before the expiry of any certificates. You can view the time to expiry of certificates by navigating to your universe **Health** tab.

You must rotate (refresh) TLS certificates before they expire to avoid service interruption. This can include the following certificates:

- Root and server certificates used for node-to-node TLS encryption.

- Root certificate used for client-to-node TLS encryption.

- Custom CA certificate.

If you are using [automatically generated universe certificates](../auto-certificate/), you must still rotate the certificate; YugabyteDB Anywhere can generate new certificates for you.

If you are using your own certificates, before rotating certificates, ensure that you have added the new certificates to YugabyteDB Anywhere. Refer to [Add certificates](../add-certificate-self/).

Rotating the CA certificate on the source universe with xCluster Replication causes replication to pause. You should [restart replication](../../../manage-deployments/xcluster-replication/xcluster-replication-setup/#restart-replication) after completing the CA certificate rotation on the source universe.

## Enable or disable encryption in transit

You can enable or disable:

- encryption in transit for the universe
- node-to-node encryption in transit
- client-to-node encryption in transit

This requires a simultaneous restart of all nodes, resulting in some downtime.

To enable or disable encryption in transit:

1. Navigate to your universe.

1. Click **Actions > More > Edit Security > Encryption in-Transit** to open the **Manage encryption in transit** dialog.

    ![Enable encryption in transit](/images/yp/encryption-in-transit/enable-eit.png)

1. Set the **Enable encryption in transit for this Universe** option.

1. On the **Certificate Authority** tab, set the **Enable Node to Node Encryption** and **Enable Client to Node Encryption** options.

1. If you are enabling node-to-node or client-to-node encryption, select the root certificate to use, or leave the **Select root certificate** field empty to have YugabyteDB Anywhere generate a self-signed certificate.

1. Click **Apply**.

YugabyteDB Anywhere restarts the universe.

## Rotate certificates

The following instructions assume that Encryption in transit is already [enabled](#enable-or-disable-encryption-in-transit) on the universe.

**Node-to-node certificates**

If your node-to-node root certificate has expired, rotation requires a simultaneous restart of all nodes, resulting in some downtime.

If the certificate has not expired:

- If the universe was created using YugabyteDB Anywhere v2.16.5 and earlier, then the rotation requires a restart, which can be done in a rolling manner with no downtime. You can opt to not perform a rolling update to update all nodes at the same time, but this will result in downtime.
- If the universe was created using YugabyteDB Anywhere v2.16.6 or later, then the rotation is done without a restart.

**Client-to-node certificates**

If the universe was created using YugabyteDB Anywhere v2.16.5 and earlier, then the rotation requires a restart. This can be done in a rolling manner with no downtime, regardless of whether the client-to-node certificates are expired or not expired.

If the universe was created using YugabyteDB Anywhere v2.16.6 or later, then the rotation is done without a restart.

If you change your client-to-node root certificate, be sure to update your clients and applications to use the new certificate. Refer to [Download the universe certificate](../../../create-deployments/connect-to-universe/#download-the-universe-certificate).

### Rotate server certificates

To rotate server (node) certificates for a universe, do the following:

1. Navigate to your universe.

1. Click **Actions > More > Edit Security > Encryption in-Transit** to open the **Manage encryption in transit** dialog.

1. On the **Server Certificate** tab, select the **Rotate Node-to-Node Server Certificate** and **Rotate Client-to-Node Server Certificate** options as appropriate.

1. _Deselect_ the rolling upgrade option to perform a hot certificate reload with no downtime.

    If the universe was created using YugabyteDB Anywhere v2.16.5 and earlier, select the **Use rolling upgrade to apply this change** option to perform the upgrade in a rolling update (recommended) and enter the number of seconds to wait between node upgrades.

1. Click **Apply**.

### Rotate root certificates

To rotate root certificates for a universe, do the following:

1. Navigate to your universe.

1. Click **Actions > More > Edit Security > Encryption in-Transit** to open the **Manage encryption in transit** dialog.

1. On the **Certificate Authority** tab, select the new root certificate(s).

    If your certificate is not listed, ensure you have [added the certificate](../add-certificate-ca/) to YugabyteDB Anywhere.

    To have YugabyteDB Anywhere generate a new self-signed CA certificate [automatically](../auto-certificate/), _clear_ the root certificate field.

    Note that when you rotate the root certificate, the server certificates are automatically rotated.

1. _Deselect_ the rolling upgrade option to perform a hot certificate reload with no downtime.

    If the universe was created using YugabyteDB Anywhere v2.16.5 and earlier, select the **Use rolling upgrade to apply this change** option to perform the upgrade in a rolling update (recommended) and enter the number of seconds to wait between node upgrades.

1. Click **Apply**.

Commit message:

[DOC-1148] Add limitation about certificate rotation for Kubernetes cert-manager (#30073)

docs/content/v2024.1/yugabyte-platform/security/enable-encryption-in-transit/rotate-certificates.md, after:

---
title: Rotate certificates on YugabyteDB Anywhere
headerTitle: Rotate certificates
linkTitle: Rotate certificates
description: Rotate certificates on YugabyteDB Anywhere.
headcontent: Rotate certificates used by a universe
menu:
  v2024.1_yugabyte-platform:
    parent: enable-encryption-in-transit
    identifier: rotate-certificates
    weight: 30
type: docs
---

YugabyteDB Anywhere will alert you 30 days before the expiry of any certificates. You can view the time to expiry of certificates by navigating to your universe **Health** tab.

You must rotate (refresh) TLS certificates before they expire to avoid service interruption. This can include the following certificates:

- Root and server certificates used for node-to-node TLS encryption.

- Root certificate used for client-to-node TLS encryption.

- Custom CA certificate.

If you are using [automatically generated universe certificates](../auto-certificate/), you must still rotate the certificate; YugabyteDB Anywhere can generate new certificates for you.

If you are using your own certificates, before rotating certificates, ensure that you have added the new certificates to YugabyteDB Anywhere. Refer to [Add certificates](../add-certificate-self/).

If you are using Kubertnetes cert-manager, certificate renewal is handled automatically by cert-manager. Refer to [Rotate certificates in cert-manager](../add-certificate-kubernetes/#rotate-certificates-in-cert-manager).

Rotating the CA certificate on the source universe with xCluster Replication causes replication to pause. You should [restart replication](../../../manage-deployments/xcluster-replication/xcluster-replication-setup/#restart-replication) after completing the CA certificate rotation on the source universe.

## Enable or disable encryption in transit

You can enable or disable:

- encryption in transit for the universe
- node-to-node encryption in transit
- client-to-node encryption in transit

This requires a simultaneous restart of all nodes, resulting in some downtime.

To enable or disable encryption in transit:

1. Navigate to your universe.

1. Click **Actions > More > Edit Security > Encryption in-Transit** to open the **Manage encryption in transit** dialog.

<!--    ![Enable encryption in transit](/images/yp/encryption-in-transit/enable-eit.png)-->

1. Set the **Enable encryption in transit for this Universe** option.

1. On the **Certificate Authority** tab, set the **Enable Node to Node Encryption** and **Enable Client to Node Encryption** options.

    You can also opt to use the same certificate for both. (Note that in Kubernetes deployments, you must use the same certificate for both.)

1. Select the root certificate(s) to use.

    If your certificate is not listed, ensure you have [added the certificate](../add-certificate-ca/) to YugabyteDB Anywhere.

    To have YugabyteDB Anywhere generate a new self-signed CA certificate [automatically](../auto-certificate/), use the default **Root Certificate** setting of **Create New Certificate**.

1. Click **Apply**.

YugabyteDB Anywhere restarts the universe.

## Rotate certificates

The following instructions assume that Encryption in transit is already [enabled](#enable-or-disable-encryption-in-transit) on the universe.

**Node-to-node certificates**

If your node-to-node root certificate has expired, rotation requires a simultaneous restart of all nodes, resulting in some downtime.

If the certificate has not expired:

- If the universe was created using YugabyteDB Anywhere v2.16.5 and earlier, then the rotation requires a restart, which can be done in a rolling manner with no downtime. You can opt to not perform a rolling update to update all nodes at the same time, but this will result in downtime.
- If the universe was created using YugabyteDB Anywhere v2.16.6 or later, then the rotation is done without a restart.

**Client-to-node certificates**

If the universe was created using YugabyteDB Anywhere v2.16.5 and earlier, then the rotation requires a restart. This can be done in a rolling manner with no downtime, regardless of whether the client-to-node certificates are expired or not expired.

If the universe was created using YugabyteDB Anywhere v2.16.6 or later, then the rotation is done without a restart.

If you change your client-to-node root certificate, be sure to update your clients and applications to use the new certificate. Refer to [Download the universe certificate](../../../create-deployments/connect-to-universe/#download-the-universe-certificate).

### Rotate server certificates

To rotate server (node) certificates for a universe, do the following:

1. Navigate to your universe.

1. Click **Actions > More > Edit Security > Encryption in-Transit** to open the **Manage encryption in transit** dialog.

1. On the **Server Certificate** tab, select the **Rotate Node-to-Node Server Certificate** and **Rotate Client-to-Node Server Certificate** options as appropriate.

1. _Deselect_ the rolling upgrade option to perform a hot certificate reload with no downtime.

    If the universe was created using YugabyteDB Anywhere v2.16.5 and earlier, select the **Use rolling upgrade to apply this change** option to perform the upgrade in a rolling update (recommended) and enter the number of seconds to wait between node upgrades.

1. Click **Apply**.

### Rotate root certificates

To rotate root certificates for a universe, do the following:

1. Navigate to your universe.

1. Click **Actions > More > Edit Security > Encryption in-Transit** to open the **Manage encryption in transit** dialog.

1. On the **Certificate Authority** tab, select the new root certificate(s).

    If your certificate is not listed, ensure you have [added the certificate](../add-certificate-ca/) to YugabyteDB Anywhere.

    To have YugabyteDB Anywhere generate a new self-signed CA certificate [automatically](../auto-certificate/), _clear_ the root certificate field.

    Note that when you rotate the root certificate, the server certificates are automatically rotated.

1. _Deselect_ the rolling upgrade option to perform a hot certificate reload with no downtime.

    If the universe was created using YugabyteDB Anywhere v2.16.5 and earlier, select the **Use rolling upgrade to apply this change** option to perform the upgrade in a rolling update (recommended) and enter the number of seconds to wait between node upgrades.

1. Click **Apply**.

## Limitation

Currently, certificate rotation for Kubernetes universes using [cert-manager](../add-certificate-kubernetes/) is not managed using YugabyteDB Anywhere.

For Kubernetes universes using cert-manager, certificate renewal is handled automatically by cert-manager based on the `renewBefore` setting in the [Certificate resource](https://cert-manager.io/v1.4-docs/usage/certificate/). cert-manager monitors certificates and automatically renews them before expiration. Ensure that your certificate resources are properly configured with appropriate `renewBefore` values (for example, 15-30 days before expiry) to prevent certificate expiration.
