docs/content/v2.20/sample-data/_index.md, before:

---
title: Sample datasets
linkTitle: Sample datasets
description: Sample datasets
headcontent: Explore the YugabyteDB YSQL API using sample datasets.
image: /images/section_icons/sample-data/s_s1-sampledata-3x.png
menu:
  v2.20:
    identifier: sample-data
    parent: reference
    weight: 2950
type: indexpage
---

YugabyteDB and YugabyteDB client shell installations include sample datasets you can use to test out YugabyteDB. These are located in the `share` directory of your installation. The datasets are also available in the [sample directory of the YugabyteDB GitHub repository](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/tree/master/sample). The datasets are provided in the form of SQL script files. All of the datasets are PostgreSQL-compatible, and you can explore them using the [ysqlsh shell](../admin/ysqlsh/) to compare between PostgreSQL and the YugabyteDB [YSQL API](../api/ysql/).

You can install and use the sample datasets using either a local installation of YugabyteDB, or by connecting to a cluster in YugabyteDB Managed (including your free cluster).

Local install
: The ysqlsh shell is included with the YugabyteDB installation. For information on installing YugabyteDB, refer to [Quick start](/preview/quick-start/).

YugabyteDB Managed
: For information on connecting to your YugabyteDB Managed cluster using `ysqlsh` in cloud shell, refer to [Connect using cloud shell](/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-connect/connect-cloud-shell/).
: For information on connecting to your YugabyteDB Managed cluster using the `ysqlsh` client installed on your computer, refer to [Connect via client shells](/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-connect/connect-client-shell/).
: The exercises can be run on free or standard clusters. To get started with YugabyteDB Managed, refer to [Quick start](/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-quickstart/).

<div class="row">

  <div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
      <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="chinook/">
          <div class="head">
              <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/sample-data/s_s2-chinook-3x.png" aria-hidden="true" />
              <div class="title">Chinook</div>
          </div>
          <div class="body">
              Explore the popular sample dataset for a digital media store.
          </div>
      </a>
  </div>

  <div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
      <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="northwind/">
          <div class="head">
              <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/sample-data/s_s3-northwind-3x.png" aria-hidden="true" />
              <div class="title">Northwind</div>
          </div>
          <div class="body">
              Explore the classic sales datasets for Northwind Traders.
          </div>
      </a>
  </div>

  <div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
      <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="pgexercises/">
          <div class="head">
              <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/sample-data/s_s4-pgexercises-3x.png" aria-hidden="true" />
              <div class="title">PgExercises</div>
          </div>
          <div class="body">
              Learn SQL and test your knowledge by creating the PostgreSQL Exercises database and trying out the available exercises.
          </div>
      </a>
  </div>

  <div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
      <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="sportsdb/">
          <div class="head">
              <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/sample-data/s_s5-sportsdb-3x.png" aria-hidden="true" />
              <div class="title">SportsDB</div>
          </div>
          <div class="body">
              Explore sample sports statistics for baseball, football, basketball, ice hockey, and soccer.
          </div>
      </a>
  </div>

   <div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
    <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="retail-analytics/">
      <div class="head">
        <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/develop/apps/e-commerce.png" aria-hidden="true" />
        <div class="title">Retail Analytics</div>
      </div>
      <div class="body">
          Ad-hoc analytics of retail sales data using YugabyteDB's YSQL API.
      </div>
    </a>
  </div>

</div>

Commit message:

[doc][ybm] Changes for pricing plans #20900 (#22588)
* Changes for pricing plans

* costing page update for new pricing

* misc edits

* edits

* edit

* review comment

* review comment

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Aishwarya Chakravarthy  <achakravarthy@yugabyte.com>

* review comments

* Managed -> Aeon (cloud directories only)

* menus and shortcodes

* Stable: Managed -> Aeon

* v2.20: Managed -> Aeon

* fix typo

* Misc acronym fixes

* v2.18: Managed -> Aeon

* preview: Managed -> Aeon

* typos

* fix deep links

* purge stale links to corp site

* screenshot and billing edits

* review comments

---------

Co-authored-by: Aishwarya Chakravarthy <achakravarthy@yugabyte.com>

docs/content/v2.20/sample-data/_index.md, after:

---
title: Sample datasets
linkTitle: Sample datasets
description: Sample datasets
headcontent: Explore the YugabyteDB YSQL API using sample datasets.
image: /images/section_icons/sample-data/s_s1-sampledata-3x.png
menu:
  v2.20:
    identifier: sample-data
    parent: reference
    weight: 2950
type: indexpage
---

YugabyteDB and YugabyteDB client shell installations include sample datasets you can use to test out YugabyteDB. These are located in the `share` directory of your installation. The datasets are also available in the [sample directory of the YugabyteDB GitHub repository](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/tree/master/sample). The datasets are provided in the form of SQL script files. All of the datasets are PostgreSQL-compatible, and you can explore them using the [ysqlsh shell](../admin/ysqlsh/) to compare between PostgreSQL and the YugabyteDB [YSQL API](../api/ysql/).

You can install and use the sample datasets using either a local installation of YugabyteDB, or by connecting to a cluster in YugabyteDB Aeon (including your free cluster).

Local install
: The ysqlsh shell is included with the YugabyteDB installation. For information on installing YugabyteDB, refer to [Quick start](/preview/quick-start/).

YugabyteDB Aeon
: For information on connecting to your YugabyteDB Aeon cluster using `ysqlsh` in cloud shell, refer to [Connect using cloud shell](/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-connect/connect-cloud-shell/).
: For information on connecting to your YugabyteDB Aeon cluster using the `ysqlsh` client installed on your computer, refer to [Connect via client shells](/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-connect/connect-client-shell/).
: The exercises can be run on free or standard clusters. To get started with YugabyteDB Aeon, refer to [Quick start](/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-quickstart/).

<div class="row">

  <div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
      <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="chinook/">
          <div class="head">
              <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/sample-data/s_s2-chinook-3x.png" aria-hidden="true" />
              <div class="title">Chinook</div>
          </div>
          <div class="body">
              Explore the popular sample dataset for a digital media store.
          </div>
      </a>
  </div>

  <div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
      <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="northwind/">
          <div class="head">
              <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/sample-data/s_s3-northwind-3x.png" aria-hidden="true" />
              <div class="title">Northwind</div>
          </div>
          <div class="body">
              Explore the classic sales datasets for Northwind Traders.
          </div>
      </a>
  </div>

  <div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
      <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="pgexercises/">
          <div class="head">
              <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/sample-data/s_s4-pgexercises-3x.png" aria-hidden="true" />
              <div class="title">PgExercises</div>
          </div>
          <div class="body">
              Learn SQL and test your knowledge by creating the PostgreSQL Exercises database and trying out the available exercises.
          </div>
      </a>
  </div>

  <div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
      <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="sportsdb/">
          <div class="head">
              <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/sample-data/s_s5-sportsdb-3x.png" aria-hidden="true" />
              <div class="title">SportsDB</div>
          </div>
          <div class="body">
              Explore sample sports statistics for baseball, football, basketball, ice hockey, and soccer.
          </div>
      </a>
  </div>

   <div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
    <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="retail-analytics/">
      <div class="head">
        <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/develop/apps/e-commerce.png" aria-hidden="true" />
        <div class="title">Retail Analytics</div>
      </div>
      <div class="body">
          Ad-hoc analytics of retail sales data using YugabyteDB's YSQL API.
      </div>
    </a>
  </div>

</div>
