docs/content/preview/yugabyte-platform/create-deployments/connect-to-universe.md, before:

---
title: Connect to a YugabyteDB Anywhere universe
headerTitle: Connect to a universe
linkTitle: Connect to a universe
description: Connect to YugabyteDB Anywhere universes from your desktop using a client shell
headcontent: Connect to database nodes from your desktop
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-platform:
    identifier: connect-to-universe
    parent: create-deployments
    weight: 80
type: docs
---

Connect to your YugabyteDB database from your desktop using the YugabyteDB [ysqlsh](../../../admin/ysqlsh/) and [ycqlsh](../../../admin/ycqlsh) client shells. Because YugabyteDB is compatible with PostgreSQL and Cassandra, you can also use [psql](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-psql.html) and third-party tools to connect.

You can connect to the database on a universe in the following ways:

- Use SSH to tunnel to one of the universe nodes, and run ysqlsh or ycqlsh on the node.
- Download and run the client shells from your desktop.

## Download the universe certificate

If the universe uses encryption in transit, to connect you need to first download the universe TLS root certificate. Do the following:

1. Navigate to **Configs > Security > Encryption in Transit**.

1. Find the certificate for your universe in the list and click **Actions** and download the certificate.

For more information on connecting to TLS-enabled universes, refer to [Connect to clusters](../../security/enable-encryption-in-transit/#connect-to-clusters).

## Connect to a universe node

The YugabyteDB shells are installed in the tserver/bin directory on each YB-TServer of a YugabyteDB universe.

### Access your YugabyteDB Anywhere instance

To connect to a universe node, you first need to be signed on to the machine where YugabyteDB Anywhere is installed, or connected via SSH.

To SSH to a YugabyteDB Anywhere instance hosted on the cloud provider, you enter the following:

```sh
ssh -i <path_to_secret> username@<platform_machine_external_ip>
```

For example, for an AWS instance, you can SSH using a command similar to the following:

```sh
ssh -i ~/.yugabyte/yb-dev-aws-2.pem ec2-user@my.yugabyte.aws
```

If your instance is on Kubernetes, use kubectl commands to connect. For example:

```sh
gcloud container clusters get-credentials --region us-west1 itest-release --project yugabyte
kubectl exec -it yw-ns-kvik-id7973-20230213-031611-yugaware-0 -n yw-ns-kvik-id7973-20230213-031611 -c yugaware -- bash
```

### Connect to a node

To run a shell from a universe node, do the following:

1. In YugabyteDB Anywhere, navigate to your universe and select the **Nodes** tab.

    ![Multi-zone universe nodes](/images/yp/multi-zone-universe-nodes-1.png)

1. Determine the node to which you wish to connect and click **Actions > Connect**.

1. Copy the SSH command displayed in the **Access your node** dialog shown in the following illustration:

    ![Multi-zone universe connect](/images/yp/multi-zone-universe-connect-2.png)

1. From the machine where YugabyteDB Anywhere is installed, run the command you copied. For example:

    ```sh.output
    sudo ssh -i /opt/yugabyte/yugaware/data/keys/f000ad00-aafe-4a67-bd1f-34bdaf3bee00/yb-dev-yugabyte-google-provider_f033ad00-aafe-4a00-bd1f-34bdaf3bee00-key.pem -ostricthostkeychecking=no -p 22 yugabyte@<node_ip_address>

    Are you sure you want to continue connecting (yes/no)? yes
    [ec2-user@yb-dev-helloworld1-n1 ~]$
    ```

1. On the node, navigate to the tserver/bin directory:

    ```sh
    cd /home/yugabyte/tserver/bin
    ```

1. Run ysqlsh or ycqlsh as follows:

    ```sh
    ./ysqlsh -h <node_ip_address>
    ```

    ```sh
    ./ycqlsh <node_ip_address>
    ```

### Enable Tectia SSH

By default, YBA uses OpenSSH for SSH to remote nodes. YBA also supports the use of Tectia SSH that is based on the latest SSH G3 protocol.

[Tectia SSH](https://www.ssh.com/products/tectia-ssh/) is used for secure file transfer, secure remote access and tunnelling. YBA is shipped with a trial version of Tectia SSH client that requires a license to notify YBA to permanently use Tectia instead of OpenSSH.

To upload the Tectia license, manually copy it at `${storage_path}/yugaware/data/licenses/<license.txt>`, where _storage_path_ is the path provided during the Replicated installation.

After the license is uploaded, YBA exposes the runtime flag `yb.security.ssh2_enabled` that you need to enable, as per the following example:

```shell
curl --location --request PUT 'http://<ip>/api/v1/customers/<customer_uuid>/runtime_config/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/key/yb.security.ssh2_enabled'
--header 'Cookie: <Cookie>'
--header 'X-AUTH-TOKEN: <token>'
--header 'Csrf-Token: <csrf-token>'
--header 'Content-Type: text/plain'
--data-raw '"true"'
```

## Connect from your desktop

### Prerequisites

- If you are using a Yugabyte client shell, ensure you are running the latest versions of the shells (Yugabyte Client 2.6 or later).

    You can download using the following command on Linux or macOS:

    ```sh
    $ curl -sSL https://downloads.yugabyte.com/get_clients.sh | bash
    ```

    Windows client shells require Docker. For example:

    ```sh
    docker run -it yugabytedb/yugabyte-client ysqlsh -h <hostname> -p <port>
    ```

- If your universe has TLS/SSL (encryption in-transit) enabled, you need to [download the certificate](#download-the-universe-certificate) to your computer.

- The host address of an endpoint on your universe.

    To view your universe endpoints, navigate to your universe and click **Connect**.

### Connect using a client shell

Use the ysqlsh, ycqlsh, and psql shells to connect to and interact with YugabyteDB using the YSQL and YCQL APIs.

<ul class="nav nav-tabs nav-tabs-yb">
  <li >
    <a href="#ysqlsh" class="nav-link active" id="ysqlsh-tab" data-toggle="tab" role="tab" aria-controls="ysqlsh" aria-selected="true">
      <i class="icon-postgres" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      ysqlsh
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#ycqlsh" class="nav-link" id="ycqlsh-tab" data-toggle="tab" role="tab" aria-controls="ycqlsh" aria-selected="false">
      <i class="icon-cassandra" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      ycqlsh
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#psql" class="nav-link" id="psql-tab" data-toggle="tab" role="tab" aria-controls="psql" aria-selected="false">
      <i class="icon-postgres" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      psql
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

<div class="tab-content">
  <div id="ysqlsh" class="tab-pane fade show active" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="ysqlsh-tab">

To connect using ysqlsh, use the following connection string:

```sh
./ysqlsh "host=<HOST_ADDRESS> \
user=<DB USER> \
dbname=yugabyte \
sslmode=verify-full \
sslrootcert=<ROOT_CERT_PATH>"
```

Replace the following:

- `<HOST_ADDRESS>` with the IP address of an endpoint on your universe.
- `<DB USER>` with your database username.
- `yugabyte` with the database name, if you're connecting to a database other than the default (yugabyte).
- `<ROOT_CERT_PATH>` with the path to the root certificate on your computer.

To load sample data and explore an example using ysqlsh, follow the instructions in [Install the Retail Analytics sample database](../../../sample-data/retail-analytics/#install-the-retail-analytics-sample-database).

  </div>

  <div id="ycqlsh" class="tab-pane fade" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="ycqlsh-tab">

To connect using ycqlsh, use the following connection string:

```sh
SSL_CERTFILE=<ROOT_CERT_PATH> \
./ycqlsh \
<HOST_ADDRESS> 9042 \
-u <DB USER> \
--ssl
```

Replace the following:

- `<HOST_ADDRESS>` with the IP address of an endpoint on your universe.
- `<DB USER>` with your database username.
- `<ROOT_CERT_PATH>` with the path to the root certificate on your computer.

  </div>

  <div id="psql" class="tab-pane fade" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="psql-tab">

To connect using [psql](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-psql.html), use the following connection string:

```sh
./psql --host=<HOST_ADDRESS> --port=5433 \
--username=<DB USER> \
--dbname=yugabyte \
--set=sslmode=verify-full \
--set=sslrootcert=<ROOT_CERT_PATH>
```

Replace the following:

- `<HOST_ADDRESS>` with the IP address of an endpoint on your universe.
- `<DB USER>` with your database username.
- `yugabyte` with the database name, if you're connecting to a database other than the default (yugabyte).
- `<ROOT_CERT_PATH>` with the path to the root certificate on your computer.

  </div>

</div>

### Connect using third party clients

Because YugabyteDB is compatible with PostgreSQL and Cassandra, you can use third-party clients to connect to your YugabyteDB clusters in YugabyteDB Managed.

To connect, follow the client's configuration steps for PostgreSQL or Cassandra, and use the following values:

- **host** address of an endpoint on your universe.
- **port** 5433 for YSQL, 9042 for YCQL.
- **database** name; the default YSQL database is yugabyte.
- **username** and **password** of a user with permissions for the database; the default user is admin.

Your client may also require the use of the [universe certificate](#download-the-universe-certificate).

For information on using popular third-party tools with YugabyteDB, see [Third party tools](../../../tools/).

## Run workloads

YugabyteDB Anywhere includes a number of sample applications provided in Docker containers.

To run sample applications on your universe, do the following:

1. [Connect to a universe node](#connect-to-a-universe-node).

1. Navigate to your universe and click **Actions > Run Sample Apps** to open the **Run Sample Apps** dialog shown in the following illustration:

    ![Run sample apps](/images/yp/multi-zone-universe-sample-apps-1.png)

1. Run the suggested Docker command in your SSH session on the node.

The **Metrics** tab of the universe allows you to see the metrics graphs, where server-side metrics tally with the client-side metrics reported by the load tester.

<!--

![YCQL Load Metrics](/images/ee/multi-zone-universe-ycql-load-metrics.png)

-->

You can also view metrics at a per-node level.

<!--

![YCQL Load Metrics Per Node](/images/ee/multi-zone-universe-ycql-load-metrics-per-node.png)

-->

You can stop the load tester as follows:

- Find the container by executing the following command:

  ```shell
  user@yugaware-1:~$ sudo docker container ls | grep "yugabytedb/yb-sample-apps"
  ```

  Expect an output similar to the following:

  ```output
  <container_id> yugabytedb/yb-sample-apps "/usr/bin/java -jar …" 17 seconds ago Up 16 seconds                                                                                                            jovial_morse
  ```

  For example, if the container ID is ac144a49d57d, you would see the following output:

  ```output
  ac144a49d57d yugabytedb/yb-sample-apps "/usr/bin/java -jar …" 17 seconds ago Up 16 seconds                                                                                                            jovial_morse
  ```

- Stop the container by executing the following command:

  ```shell
  user@yugaware-1:~$ sudo docker container stop <container_id>
  ```

  Expect the following output:

  ```output
  <container_id>
  ```

  For example, for a container with ID ac144a49d57d, you would need to execute the following command:

  ```shell
  user@yugaware-1:~$ sudo docker container stop ac144a49d57d
  ```

  You would see the following output:

  ```output
  ac144a49d57d
  ```

### Examine data

Connect to the YCQL service by executing the following command:

```sh
/home/yugabyte/tserver/bin/ycqlsh <ip_address_of_the_node>
```

You can view the table schema and the data, as follows:

```sql
ycqlsh> DESCRIBE ybdemo_keyspace.cassandrakeyvalue;
```

```output.cql
CREATE TABLE ybdemo_keyspace.cassandrakeyvalue (
  k text PRIMARY KEY,
  v blob
) WITH default_time_to_live = 0;
```

```sql
ycqlsh> SELECT * FROM ybdemo_keyspace.cassandrakeyvalue LIMIT 5;
```

```output
 k          | v
------------+-----------------------------------------
 key:101323 | 0x4276616c3a3130313332336be1dd6597e2...
 key:159968 | 0x4276616c3a3135393936381ed99587c08f...
  key:24879 | 0x4276616c3a3234383739054071b34c3fb6...
 key:294799 | 0x4276616c3a3239343739398b312748e80e...
 key:297045 | 0x4276616c3a32393730343525764eedee94...

(5 rows)
```

## Learn more

- [ysqlsh](../../../admin/ysqlsh/) — Overview of the command line interface (CLI), syntax, and commands.
- [YSQL API](../../../api/ysql/) — Reference for supported YSQL statements, data types, functions, and operators.
- [ycqlsh](../../../admin/ycqlsh/) — Overview of the command line interface (CLI), syntax, and commands.
- [YCQL API](../../../api/ycql/) — Reference for supported YCQL statements, data types, functions, and operators.

Commit message:

[doc][yba] Acronym and fixes (#22940)
* Acronym and fixes

* typo

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Aishwarya Chakravarthy  <achakravarthy@yugabyte.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Aishwarya Chakravarthy <achakravarthy@yugabyte.com>

docs/content/preview/yugabyte-platform/create-deployments/connect-to-universe.md, after:

---
title: Connect to a YugabyteDB Anywhere universe
headerTitle: Connect to a universe
linkTitle: Connect to a universe
description: Connect to YugabyteDB Anywhere universes from your desktop using a client shell
headcontent: Connect to database nodes from your desktop
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-platform:
    identifier: connect-to-universe
    parent: create-deployments
    weight: 80
type: docs
---

Connect to your YugabyteDB database from your desktop using the YugabyteDB [ysqlsh](../../../admin/ysqlsh/) and [ycqlsh](../../../admin/ycqlsh) client shells. Because YugabyteDB is compatible with PostgreSQL and Cassandra, you can also use [psql](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-psql.html) and third-party tools to connect.

You can connect to the database on a universe in the following ways:

- Use SSH to tunnel to one of the universe nodes, and run ysqlsh or ycqlsh on the node.
- Download and run the client shells from your desktop.

## Download the universe certificate

If the universe uses encryption in transit, to connect you need to first download the universe TLS root certificate. Do the following:

1. Navigate to **Configs > Security > Encryption in Transit**.

1. Find the certificate for your universe in the list and click **Actions** and download the certificate.

For more information on connecting to TLS-enabled universes, refer to [Connect to clusters](../../security/enable-encryption-in-transit/#connect-to-clusters).

## Connect to a universe node

The YugabyteDB shells are installed in the tserver/bin directory on each YB-TServer of a YugabyteDB universe.

### Access your YugabyteDB Anywhere instance

To connect to a universe node, you first need to be signed on to the machine where YugabyteDB Anywhere is installed, or connected via SSH.

To SSH to a YugabyteDB Anywhere instance hosted on the cloud provider, you enter the following:

```sh
ssh -i <path_to_secret> username@<platform_machine_external_ip>
```

For example, for an AWS instance, you can SSH using a command similar to the following:

```sh
ssh -i ~/.yugabyte/yb-dev-aws-2.pem ec2-user@my.yugabyte.aws
```

If your instance is on Kubernetes, use kubectl commands to connect. For example:

```sh
gcloud container clusters get-credentials --region us-west1 itest-release --project yugabyte
kubectl exec -it yw-ns-kvik-id7973-20230213-031611-yugaware-0 -n yw-ns-kvik-id7973-20230213-031611 -c yugaware -- bash
```

### Connect to a node

To run a shell from a universe node, do the following:

1. In YugabyteDB Anywhere, navigate to your universe and select the **Nodes** tab.

    ![Multi-zone universe nodes](/images/yp/multi-zone-universe-nodes-1.png)

1. Determine the node to which you wish to connect and click **Actions > Connect**.

1. Copy the SSH command displayed in the **Access your node** dialog shown in the following illustration:

    ![Multi-zone universe connect](/images/yp/multi-zone-universe-connect-2.png)

1. From the machine where YugabyteDB Anywhere is installed, run the command you copied. For example:

    ```sh.output
    sudo ssh -i /opt/yugabyte/yugaware/data/keys/f000ad00-aafe-4a67-bd1f-34bdaf3bee00/yb-dev-yugabyte-google-provider_f033ad00-aafe-4a00-bd1f-34bdaf3bee00-key.pem -ostricthostkeychecking=no -p 22 yugabyte@<node_ip_address>

    Are you sure you want to continue connecting (yes/no)? yes
    [ec2-user@yb-dev-helloworld1-n1 ~]$
    ```

1. On the node, navigate to the tserver/bin directory:

    ```sh
    cd /home/yugabyte/tserver/bin
    ```

1. Run ysqlsh or ycqlsh as follows:

    ```sh
    ./ysqlsh -h <node_ip_address>
    ```

    ```sh
    ./ycqlsh <node_ip_address>
    ```

### Enable Tectia SSH

By default, YugabyteDB Anywhere uses OpenSSH for SSH to remote nodes. YugabyteDB Anywhere also supports the use of Tectia SSH that is based on the latest SSH G3 protocol.

[Tectia SSH](https://www.ssh.com/products/tectia-ssh/) is used for secure file transfer, secure remote access and tunnelling. YugabyteDB Anywhere is shipped with a trial version of Tectia SSH client that requires a license to notify YugabyteDB Anywhere to permanently use Tectia instead of OpenSSH.

To upload the Tectia license, manually copy it at `${storage_path}/yugaware/data/licenses/<license.txt>`, where _storage_path_ is the path provided during the Replicated installation.

After the license is uploaded, YugabyteDB Anywhere exposes the runtime flag `yb.security.ssh2_enabled` that you need to enable, as per the following example:

```shell
curl --location --request PUT 'http://<ip>/api/v1/customers/<customer_uuid>/runtime_config/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/key/yb.security.ssh2_enabled'
--header 'Cookie: <Cookie>'
--header 'X-AUTH-TOKEN: <token>'
--header 'Csrf-Token: <csrf-token>'
--header 'Content-Type: text/plain'
--data-raw '"true"'
```

## Connect from your desktop

### Prerequisites

- If you are using a Yugabyte client shell, ensure you are running the latest versions of the shells (Yugabyte Client 2.6 or later).

    You can download using the following command on Linux or macOS:

    ```sh
    $ curl -sSL https://downloads.yugabyte.com/get_clients.sh | bash
    ```

    Windows client shells require Docker. For example:

    ```sh
    docker run -it yugabytedb/yugabyte-client ysqlsh -h <hostname> -p <port>
    ```

- If your universe has TLS/SSL (encryption in-transit) enabled, you need to [download the certificate](#download-the-universe-certificate) to your computer.

- The host address of an endpoint on your universe.

    To view your universe endpoints, navigate to your universe and click **Connect**.

### Connect using a client shell

Use the ysqlsh, ycqlsh, and psql shells to connect to and interact with YugabyteDB using the YSQL and YCQL APIs.

<ul class="nav nav-tabs nav-tabs-yb">
  <li >
    <a href="#ysqlsh" class="nav-link active" id="ysqlsh-tab" data-toggle="tab" role="tab" aria-controls="ysqlsh" aria-selected="true">
      <i class="icon-postgres" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      ysqlsh
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#ycqlsh" class="nav-link" id="ycqlsh-tab" data-toggle="tab" role="tab" aria-controls="ycqlsh" aria-selected="false">
      <i class="icon-cassandra" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      ycqlsh
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#psql" class="nav-link" id="psql-tab" data-toggle="tab" role="tab" aria-controls="psql" aria-selected="false">
      <i class="icon-postgres" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      psql
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

<div class="tab-content">
  <div id="ysqlsh" class="tab-pane fade show active" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="ysqlsh-tab">

To connect using ysqlsh, use the following connection string:

```sh
./ysqlsh "host=<HOST_ADDRESS> \
user=<DB USER> \
dbname=yugabyte \
sslmode=verify-full \
sslrootcert=<ROOT_CERT_PATH>"
```

Replace the following:

- `<HOST_ADDRESS>` with the IP address of an endpoint on your universe.
- `<DB USER>` with your database username.
- `yugabyte` with the database name, if you're connecting to a database other than the default (yugabyte).
- `<ROOT_CERT_PATH>` with the path to the root certificate on your computer.

To load sample data and explore an example using ysqlsh, follow the instructions in [Install the Retail Analytics sample database](../../../sample-data/retail-analytics/#install-the-retail-analytics-sample-database).

  </div>

  <div id="ycqlsh" class="tab-pane fade" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="ycqlsh-tab">

To connect using ycqlsh, use the following connection string:

```sh
SSL_CERTFILE=<ROOT_CERT_PATH> \
./ycqlsh \
<HOST_ADDRESS> 9042 \
-u <DB USER> \
--ssl
```

Replace the following:

- `<HOST_ADDRESS>` with the IP address of an endpoint on your universe.
- `<DB USER>` with your database username.
- `<ROOT_CERT_PATH>` with the path to the root certificate on your computer.

  </div>

  <div id="psql" class="tab-pane fade" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="psql-tab">

To connect using [psql](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-psql.html), use the following connection string:

```sh
./psql --host=<HOST_ADDRESS> --port=5433 \
--username=<DB USER> \
--dbname=yugabyte \
--set=sslmode=verify-full \
--set=sslrootcert=<ROOT_CERT_PATH>
```

Replace the following:

- `<HOST_ADDRESS>` with the IP address of an endpoint on your universe.
- `<DB USER>` with your database username.
- `yugabyte` with the database name, if you're connecting to a database other than the default (yugabyte).
- `<ROOT_CERT_PATH>` with the path to the root certificate on your computer.

  </div>

</div>

### Connect using third party clients

Because YugabyteDB is compatible with PostgreSQL and Cassandra, you can use third-party clients to connect to your YugabyteDB clusters in YugabyteDB Managed.

To connect, follow the client's configuration steps for PostgreSQL or Cassandra, and use the following values:

- **host** address of an endpoint on your universe.
- **port** 5433 for YSQL, 9042 for YCQL.
- **database** name; the default YSQL database is yugabyte.
- **username** and **password** of a user with permissions for the database; the default user is admin.

Your client may also require the use of the [universe certificate](#download-the-universe-certificate).

For information on using popular third-party tools with YugabyteDB, see [Third party tools](../../../tools/).

## Run workloads

YugabyteDB Anywhere includes a number of sample applications provided in Docker containers.

To run sample applications on your universe, do the following:

1. [Connect to a universe node](#connect-to-a-universe-node).

1. Navigate to your universe and click **Actions > Run Sample Apps** to open the **Run Sample Apps** dialog shown in the following illustration:

    ![Run sample apps](/images/yp/multi-zone-universe-sample-apps-1.png)

1. Run the suggested Docker command in your SSH session on the node.

The **Metrics** tab of the universe allows you to see the metrics graphs, where server-side metrics tally with the client-side metrics reported by the load tester.

<!--

![YCQL Load Metrics](/images/ee/multi-zone-universe-ycql-load-metrics.png)

-->

You can also view metrics at a per-node level.

<!--

![YCQL Load Metrics Per Node](/images/ee/multi-zone-universe-ycql-load-metrics-per-node.png)

-->

You can stop the load tester as follows:

- Find the container by executing the following command:

  ```shell
  user@yugaware-1:~$ sudo docker container ls | grep "yugabytedb/yb-sample-apps"
  ```

  Expect an output similar to the following:

  ```output
  <container_id> yugabytedb/yb-sample-apps "/usr/bin/java -jar …" 17 seconds ago Up 16 seconds                                                                                                            jovial_morse
  ```

  For example, if the container ID is ac144a49d57d, you would see the following output:

  ```output
  ac144a49d57d yugabytedb/yb-sample-apps "/usr/bin/java -jar …" 17 seconds ago Up 16 seconds                                                                                                            jovial_morse
  ```

- Stop the container by executing the following command:

  ```shell
  user@yugaware-1:~$ sudo docker container stop <container_id>
  ```

  Expect the following output:

  ```output
  <container_id>
  ```

  For example, for a container with ID ac144a49d57d, you would need to execute the following command:

  ```shell
  user@yugaware-1:~$ sudo docker container stop ac144a49d57d
  ```

  You would see the following output:

  ```output
  ac144a49d57d
  ```

### Examine data

Connect to the YCQL service by executing the following command:

```sh
/home/yugabyte/tserver/bin/ycqlsh <ip_address_of_the_node>
```

You can view the table schema and the data, as follows:

```sql
ycqlsh> DESCRIBE ybdemo_keyspace.cassandrakeyvalue;
```

```output.cql
CREATE TABLE ybdemo_keyspace.cassandrakeyvalue (
  k text PRIMARY KEY,
  v blob
) WITH default_time_to_live = 0;
```

```sql
ycqlsh> SELECT * FROM ybdemo_keyspace.cassandrakeyvalue LIMIT 5;
```

```output
 k          | v
------------+-----------------------------------------
 key:101323 | 0x4276616c3a3130313332336be1dd6597e2...
 key:159968 | 0x4276616c3a3135393936381ed99587c08f...
  key:24879 | 0x4276616c3a3234383739054071b34c3fb6...
 key:294799 | 0x4276616c3a3239343739398b312748e80e...
 key:297045 | 0x4276616c3a32393730343525764eedee94...

(5 rows)
```

## Learn more

- [ysqlsh](../../../admin/ysqlsh/) — Overview of the command line interface (CLI), syntax, and commands.
- [YSQL API](../../../api/ysql/) — Reference for supported YSQL statements, data types, functions, and operators.
- [ycqlsh](../../../admin/ycqlsh/) — Overview of the command line interface (CLI), syntax, and commands.
- [YCQL API](../../../api/ycql/) — Reference for supported YCQL statements, data types, functions, and operators.
