docs/content/stable/deploy/manual-deployment/install-software.md, before:

---
title: Manual software installation
headerTitle: Install software
linkTitle: 2. Install software
description: How to manually install YugabyteDB database on each node.
menu:
  stable:
    identifier: deploy-manual-deployment-install-software
    parent: deploy-manual-deployment
    weight: 612
type: docs
---

Installing YugabyteDB involves completing prerequisites and downloading the YugabyteDB package.

## Prerequisites

{{% readfile "/preview/quick-start/include-prerequisites-linux.md" %}}

## Download YugabyteDB

YugabyteDB supports both x86 and ARM (aarch64) CPU architectures. Download packages ending in `x86_64.tar.gz` to run on x86, and packages ending in `aarch64.tar.gz` to run on ARM.

The following instructions are for downloading the STS (standard-term support) release of YugabyteDB, which is recommended for production deployments. For other versions, see [Releases](/preview/releases/).

Download YugabyteDB as follows:

1. Download the YugabyteDB package using one of the following `wget` commands:

    ```sh
    wget https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/{{< yb-version version="preview">}}/yugabyte-{{< yb-version version="preview" format="build">}}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
    ```

    Or:

    ```sh
    wget https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/{{< yb-version version="preview">}}/yugabyte-{{< yb-version version="preview" format="build">}}-el8-aarch64.tar.gz
    ```

1. Extract the package and then change directories to the YugabyteDB home.

    ```sh
    tar xvfz yugabyte-{{< yb-version version="preview" format="build">}}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz && cd yugabyte-{{< yb-version version="preview">}}/
    ```

    Or:

    ```sh
    tar xvfz yugabyte-{{< yb-version version="preview" format="build">}}-el8-aarch64.tar.gz && cd yugabyte-{{< yb-version version="preview">}}/
    ```

## Configure YugabyteDB

To configure YugabyteDB, run the following shell script:

```sh
./bin/post_install.sh
```

Commit message:

[BACKPORT pg15-cherrypicks] all: Bulk port from master - 84
Summary:
 af6cbad8a5 Add note box to install (#23582)
 3e927c69a4 [PLAT-14928]: Add ability to override Master, TServer and Node Exporter  ports during Edit Universe in Non-k8 environment
 a98768e721 [PLAT-11553][PLAT-12297] YBA CLI - VM Image Upgrades
 ca8843d014 [PLAT-15027] Fix API token to not contain $ sign instead use a safe char .
 dbf2a5ae98 [PLAT-14695] preflight checks validate multiple ntp services
 a884e72f50 Add a doc page to show all flags for yb-master and yb-tserver releases #21664 (#23508)
 f566e0280b [PLAT-14945][PLAT-15006][PLAT-15017]: Fix xCluster metrics and Add/Remove tables with bootstrap needed.
 6fe34d463e [PLAT-13707] redact ysql_hba_conf_csv value from logs

Test Plan: Jenkins: rebase: pg15-cherrypicks

Reviewers: jason, tfoucher

Differential Revision: https://phorge.dev.yugabyte.com/D37504

docs/content/stable/deploy/manual-deployment/install-software.md, after:

---
title: Manual software installation
headerTitle: Install software
linkTitle: 2. Install software
description: How to manually install YugabyteDB database on each node.
menu:
  stable:
    identifier: deploy-manual-deployment-install-software
    parent: deploy-manual-deployment
    weight: 612
type: docs
---

Installing YugabyteDB involves completing prerequisites and downloading the YugabyteDB package.

## Prerequisites

{{% readfile "/preview/quick-start/include-prerequisites-linux.md" %}}

## Download YugabyteDB

YugabyteDB supports both x86 and ARM (aarch64) CPU architectures. Download packages ending in `x86_64.tar.gz` to run on x86, and packages ending in `aarch64.tar.gz` to run on ARM.

The following instructions are for downloading the latest stable release of YugabyteDB, which is recommended for production deployments. For other versions, see [Releases](/preview/releases/).

{{<note title="Which release should I use?">}}
For production deployments, install a stable release.

Preview releases are recommended for development and testing only, and are not supported for production deployments. There is currently no migration path from a preview release to a stable release.
{{</note>}}

Download YugabyteDB as follows:

1. Download the YugabyteDB package using one of the following `wget` commands:

    ```sh
    wget https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/{{< yb-version version="stable">}}/yugabyte-{{< yb-version version="stable" format="build">}}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
    ```

    Or:

    ```sh
    wget https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/{{< yb-version version="stable">}}/yugabyte-{{< yb-version version="stable" format="build">}}-el8-aarch64.tar.gz
    ```

1. Extract the package and then change directories to the YugabyteDB home.

    ```sh
    tar xvfz yugabyte-{{< yb-version version="preview" format="build">}}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz && cd yugabyte-{{< yb-version version="preview">}}/
    ```

    Or:

    ```sh
    tar xvfz yugabyte-{{< yb-version version="preview" format="build">}}-el8-aarch64.tar.gz && cd yugabyte-{{< yb-version version="preview">}}/
    ```

## Configure YugabyteDB

To configure YugabyteDB, run the following shell script:

```sh
./bin/post_install.sh
```
