docs/content/preview/yugabyte-voyager/known-issues/_index.md, before:

---
title: Manual review guideline for YugabyteDB Voyager
headerTitle: Manual review guideline
linkTitle: Manual review guideline
image: /images/section_icons/develop/learn.png
headcontent: What to watch out for when migrating data using YugabyteDB Voyager
description: What to watch out for when migrating data using YugabyteDB Voyager.
type: indexpage
showRightNav: true
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-voyager:
    identifier: known-issues
    parent: yugabytedb-voyager
    weight: 104
---

Review the unsupported features, limitations, and implement suggested workarounds to successfully migrate data from MySQL, Oracle, or PostgreSQL to YugabyteDB.

## Unsupported features

Currently, yb-voyager doesn't support the following features:

| Feature | Description/Alternatives  | GitHub Issue |
| :------ | :------------------------ | :----------- |
| ALTER VIEW | YugabyteDB does not yet support any schemas containing `ALTER VIEW` statements. | [48](https://github.com/yugabyte/yb-voyager/issues/48) |
| USERS/GRANTS | Voyager does not support migrating the USERS and GRANTS from the source database to the target cluster. |
| Unsupported data types | Data migration is unsupported for some data types, such as BLOB and XML. For others such as ANY and BFile, both schema and data migration is unsupported. Refer to [datatype mapping](../reference/datatype-mapping-oracle/) for the detailed list of data types. | |

## Manual review

<div class="row">
 <div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
    <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="general-issues/">
      <div class="head">
        <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/architecture/concepts.png" aria-hidden="true" />
        <div class="title">General</div>
      </div>
      <div class="body">
       Explore workarounds for limitations associated with MySQL, PostgreSQL, and Oracle source databases.
      </div>
    </a>
  </div>

  <div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
    <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="mysql/">
      <div class="head">
        <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/architecture/concepts.png" aria-hidden="true" />
        <div class="title">MySQL</div>
      </div>
      <div class="body">
        Explore workarounds for limitations associated with MySQL as the source database.
      </div>
    </a>
  </div>

  <div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
    <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="postgresql/">
      <div class="head">
        <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/architecture/concepts.png" aria-hidden="true" />
        <div class="title">PostgreSQL</div>
      </div>
      <div class="body">
        Explore workarounds for limitations associated with PostgreSQL as the source database.
      </div>
    </a>
  </div>

  <div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
    <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="oracle/">
      <div class="head">
        <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/architecture/concepts.png" aria-hidden="true" />
        <div class="title">Oracle</div>
      </div>
      <div class="body">
       Explore workarounds for limitations associated with Oracle as the source database.
      </div>
    </a>
  </div>

<div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
    <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="mysql-oracle/">
      <div class="head">
        <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/architecture/concepts.png" aria-hidden="true" />
        <div class="title">MySQL and Oracle</div>
      </div>
      <div class="body">
       Explore workarounds for limitations associated with MySQL and Oracle source databases.
      </div>
    </a>
  </div>
</div>

Commit message:

[DOC-334] YB Voyager v1.7  (#22242)
* first set of changes for v1.7

* updates to tabs

* added pg options for fall-back

* all updates added, assess migration pending

* assess migration content added

* removed files

* review comments addressed

* minor edits and changes from review

* review comments

* added release notes and assessment image

* added more release notes and version updates for target db

* more changes from review

* added pg known issue and unsupported pg issue

* review comments

* added schema list to another fall back query

* changed date

* changed date

docs/content/preview/yugabyte-voyager/known-issues/_index.md, after:

---
title: Manual review guideline for YugabyteDB Voyager
headerTitle: Manual review guideline
linkTitle: Manual review guideline
image: /images/section_icons/develop/learn.png
headcontent: What to watch out for when migrating data using YugabyteDB Voyager
description: What to watch out for when migrating data using YugabyteDB Voyager.
type: indexpage
showRightNav: true
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-voyager:
    identifier: known-issues
    parent: yugabytedb-voyager
    weight: 104
---

Review the unsupported features, limitations, and implement suggested workarounds to successfully migrate data from MySQL, Oracle, or PostgreSQL to YugabyteDB.

## Unsupported features

Currently, yb-voyager doesn't support the following features:

| Feature | Description/Alternatives  | GitHub Issue |
| :------ | :------------------------ | :----------- |
| ALTER VIEW | YugabyteDB does not yet support any schemas containing `ALTER VIEW` statements. | [48](https://github.com/yugabyte/yb-voyager/issues/48) |
| USERS/GRANTS | Voyager does not support migrating the USERS and GRANTS from the source database to the target cluster. |
| Unsupported data types | Data migration is unsupported for some data types, such as BLOB and XML. For others such as ANY and BFile, both schema and data migration is unsupported. Refer to [datatype mapping](../reference/datatype-mapping-oracle/) for the detailed list of data types. | |
| Unsupported PostgreSQL features | Yugabyte currently doesn't support the PostgreSQL features listed in [PostgreSQL compatibility](../../explore/ysql-language-features/postgresql-compatibility/#unsupported-postgresql-features). If such schema clauses are encountered, Voyager results in an error. | |

## Manual review

<div class="row">
 <div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
    <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="general-issues/">
      <div class="head">
        <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/architecture/concepts.png" aria-hidden="true" />
        <div class="title">General</div>
      </div>
      <div class="body">
       Explore workarounds for limitations associated with MySQL, PostgreSQL, and Oracle source databases.
      </div>
    </a>
  </div>

  <div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
    <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="mysql/">
      <div class="head">
        <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/architecture/concepts.png" aria-hidden="true" />
        <div class="title">MySQL</div>
      </div>
      <div class="body">
        Explore workarounds for limitations associated with MySQL as the source database.
      </div>
    </a>
  </div>

  <div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
    <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="postgresql/">
      <div class="head">
        <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/architecture/concepts.png" aria-hidden="true" />
        <div class="title">PostgreSQL</div>
      </div>
      <div class="body">
        Explore workarounds for limitations associated with PostgreSQL as the source database.
      </div>
    </a>
  </div>

  <div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
    <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="oracle/">
      <div class="head">
        <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/architecture/concepts.png" aria-hidden="true" />
        <div class="title">Oracle</div>
      </div>
      <div class="body">
       Explore workarounds for limitations associated with Oracle as the source database.
      </div>
    </a>
  </div>

<div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
    <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="mysql-oracle/">
      <div class="head">
        <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/architecture/concepts.png" aria-hidden="true" />
        <div class="title">MySQL and Oracle</div>
      </div>
      <div class="body">
       Explore workarounds for limitations associated with MySQL and Oracle source databases.
      </div>
    </a>
  </div>
</div>
