docs/content/preview/yugabyte-voyager/known-issues/postgresql.md, before:

---
title: PostgreSQL source database
linkTitle: PostgreSQL
headcontent: Known issues when migrating data from PostgreSQL.
description: Known issues and suggested workarounds for migrating data from PostgreSQL.
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-voyager:
    identifier: postgresql-issues
    parent: known-issues
    weight: 102
type: docs
rightNav:
  hideH3: true
---

This page documents known issues you may encounter and suggested workarounds when migrating data from PostgreSQL to YugabyteDB.

## Contents

- [Adding primary key to a partitioned table results in an error](#adding-primary-key-to-a-partitioned-table-results-in-an-error)
- [Index creation on partitions fail for some YugabyteDB builds](#index-creation-on-partitions-fail-for-some-yugabytedb-builds)
- [Creation of certain views in the rule.sql file](#creation-of-certain-views-in-the-rule-sql-file)

### Adding primary key to a partitioned table results in an error

**GitHub**: [Issue #612](https://github.com/yugabyte/yb-voyager/issues/612)

**Description**: If you have a partitioned table in which primary key is added later using `ALTER TABLE`, then the table creation fails with the following error:

```output
ERROR: adding primary key to a partitioned table is not yet implemented (SQLSTATE XX000)
```

**Workaround**: Manual intervention needed. Add primary key in the `CREATE TABLE` statement.

**Example**

An example schema on the source database is as follows:

```sql
CREATE TABLE public.sales_region (
    id integer NOT NULL,
    amount integer,
    branch text,
    region text NOT NULL
)
PARTITION BY LIST (region);

ALTER TABLE ONLY public.sales_region ADD CONSTRAINT sales_region_pkey PRIMARY KEY (id, region);
```

Suggested change to the schema is as follows:

```sql
CREATE TABLE public.sales_region (
    id integer NOT NULL,
    amount integer,
    branch text,
    region text NOT NULL,
    PRIMARY KEY(id, region)
)
PARTITION BY LIST (region);
```

---

### Index creation on partitions fail for some YugabyteDB builds

**GitHub**: [Issue #14529](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/14529)

**Description**: If you have a partitioned table with indexes on it, the migration will fail with an error for YugabyteDB `2.15` or `2.16` due to a regression.

Note that this is fixed in release [12.17.1.0](../../../releases/release-notes/v2.17/#v2.17.1.0).

**Workaround**: N/A

**Example**

An example schema on the source database is as follows:

```sql
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS list_part;

CREATE TABLE list_part (id INTEGER, status TEXT, arr NUMERIC) PARTITION BY LIST(status);

CREATE TABLE list_active PARTITION OF list_part FOR VALUES IN ('ACTIVE');

CREATE TABLE list_archived PARTITION OF list_part FOR VALUES IN ('EXPIRED');

CREATE TABLE list_others PARTITION OF list_part DEFAULT;

INSERT INTO list_part VALUES (1,'ACTIVE',100), (2,'RECURRING',20), (3,'EXPIRED',38), (4,'REACTIVATED',144), (5,'ACTIVE',50);

CREATE INDEX list_ind ON list_part(status);
```

---

### Creation of certain views in the rule.sql file

**GitHub**: [Issue #770](https://github.com/yugabyte/yb-voyager/issues/770)

**Description**: There may be few cases where certain exported views come under the `rule.sql` file and the `view.sql` file might contain a dummy view definition. This `pg_dump` behaviour may be due to how PostgreSQL handles views internally (via rules).

{{< note title ="Note" >}}
This does not affect the migration as YugabyteDB Voyager takes care of the DDL creation sequence internally.
{{< /note >}}

**Workaround**: Not required

**Example**

An example schema on the source database is as follows:

```sql
CREATE TABLE foo(n1 int PRIMARY KEY, n2 int);
CREATE VIEW v1 AS
  SELECT n1,n2
  FROM foo
  GROUP BY n1;
```

The exported schema for `view.sql` is as follows:

```sql
CREATE VIEW public.v1 AS
  SELECT
    NULL::integer AS n1,
    NULL::integer AS n2;
```

The exported schema for `rule.sql` is as follows:

```sql
CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW public.v1 AS
  SELECT foo.n1,foo.n2
  FROM public.foo
  GROUP BY foo.n1;
```

Commit message:

boolean flags updates and change to manual review guideline

docs/content/preview/yugabyte-voyager/known-issues/postgresql.md, after:

---
title: PostgreSQL source database
linkTitle: PostgreSQL
headcontent: Known issues when migrating data from PostgreSQL.
description: Known issues and suggested workarounds for migrating data from PostgreSQL.
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-voyager:
    identifier: postgresql-issues
    parent: known-issues
    weight: 102
type: docs
rightNav:
  hideH3: true
---

Review and explore the suggested workarounds for multiple areas when migrating data from PostgreSQL to YugabyteDB.

## Contents

- [Adding primary key to a partitioned table results in an error](#adding-primary-key-to-a-partitioned-table-results-in-an-error)
- [Index creation on partitions fail for some YugabyteDB builds](#index-creation-on-partitions-fail-for-some-yugabytedb-builds)
- [Creation of certain views in the rule.sql file](#creation-of-certain-views-in-the-rule-sql-file)

### Adding primary key to a partitioned table results in an error

**GitHub**: [Issue #612](https://github.com/yugabyte/yb-voyager/issues/612)

**Description**: If you have a partitioned table in which primary key is added later using `ALTER TABLE`, then the table creation fails with the following error:

```output
ERROR: adding primary key to a partitioned table is not yet implemented (SQLSTATE XX000)
```

**Workaround**: Manual intervention needed. Add primary key in the `CREATE TABLE` statement.

**Example**

An example schema on the source database is as follows:

```sql
CREATE TABLE public.sales_region (
    id integer NOT NULL,
    amount integer,
    branch text,
    region text NOT NULL
)
PARTITION BY LIST (region);

ALTER TABLE ONLY public.sales_region ADD CONSTRAINT sales_region_pkey PRIMARY KEY (id, region);
```

Suggested change to the schema is as follows:

```sql
CREATE TABLE public.sales_region (
    id integer NOT NULL,
    amount integer,
    branch text,
    region text NOT NULL,
    PRIMARY KEY(id, region)
)
PARTITION BY LIST (region);
```

---

### Index creation on partitions fail for some YugabyteDB builds

**GitHub**: [Issue #14529](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/14529)

**Description**: If you have a partitioned table with indexes on it, the migration will fail with an error for YugabyteDB `2.15` or `2.16` due to a regression.

Note that this is fixed in release [12.17.1.0](../../../releases/release-notes/v2.17/#v2.17.1.0).

**Workaround**: N/A

**Example**

An example schema on the source database is as follows:

```sql
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS list_part;

CREATE TABLE list_part (id INTEGER, status TEXT, arr NUMERIC) PARTITION BY LIST(status);

CREATE TABLE list_active PARTITION OF list_part FOR VALUES IN ('ACTIVE');

CREATE TABLE list_archived PARTITION OF list_part FOR VALUES IN ('EXPIRED');

CREATE TABLE list_others PARTITION OF list_part DEFAULT;

INSERT INTO list_part VALUES (1,'ACTIVE',100), (2,'RECURRING',20), (3,'EXPIRED',38), (4,'REACTIVATED',144), (5,'ACTIVE',50);

CREATE INDEX list_ind ON list_part(status);
```

---

### Creation of certain views in the rule.sql file

**GitHub**: [Issue #770](https://github.com/yugabyte/yb-voyager/issues/770)

**Description**: There may be few cases where certain exported views come under the `rule.sql` file and the `view.sql` file might contain a dummy view definition. This `pg_dump` behaviour may be due to how PostgreSQL handles views internally (via rules).

{{< note title ="Note" >}}
This does not affect the migration as YugabyteDB Voyager takes care of the DDL creation sequence internally.
{{< /note >}}

**Workaround**: Not required

**Example**

An example schema on the source database is as follows:

```sql
CREATE TABLE foo(n1 int PRIMARY KEY, n2 int);
CREATE VIEW v1 AS
  SELECT n1,n2
  FROM foo
  GROUP BY n1;
```

The exported schema for `view.sql` is as follows:

```sql
CREATE VIEW public.v1 AS
  SELECT
    NULL::integer AS n1,
    NULL::integer AS n2;
```

The exported schema for `rule.sql` is as follows:

```sql
CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW public.v1 AS
  SELECT foo.n1,foo.n2
  FROM public.foo
  GROUP BY foo.n1;
```
