docs/content/preview/yugabyte-cloud/_index.md, before:

---
title: YugabyteDB Managed
headerTitle: YugabyteDB Managed
linkTitle: YugabyteDB Managed
headcontent: Fully managed YugabyteDB-as-a-Service
aliases:
  - /preview/deploy/yugabyte-cloud/
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-cloud:
    identifier: yugabyte-cloud
    parent: yugabytedb-managed
    weight: 1
type: indexpage
breadcrumbDisable: true
resourcesIntro: Quick Links
resources:
  - title: Free Trial
    url: /preview/yugabyte-cloud/managed-freetrial/
  - title: What's New
    url: /preview/yugabyte-cloud/release-notes/
  - title: YugabyteDB Managed FAQ
    url: /preview/faq/yugabytedb-managed-faq/
  - title: Video Tutorials
    url: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL8Z3vt4qJTkIAYWaUOE_CIntxTHho_pBh
cascade:
  unversioned: true
---

YugabyteDB Managed is a fully managed YugabyteDB-as-a-Service that allows you to run YugabyteDB clusters on Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Platform (GCP).

{{<tip>}}
YugabyteDB Managed SLA service availability is [99.99%](https://www.yugabyte.com/yugabytedb-managed-service-level-agreement/#:~:text=a%20minimum%20of-,99.99,-%25%20of%20the%20time). For the current status of the service, see [YBM status](https://status.yugabyte.cloud/).
{{</tip>}}

{{< sections/2-boxes >}}
  {{< sections/bottom-image-box
    title="Sign up to create a Sandbox cluster"
    description="Sign up, log in, and follow the built-in tutorial to create your first cluster and build a sample application. No credit card required."
    buttonText="Sign up"
    buttonTarget="_blank"
    buttonUrl="https://cloud.yugabyte.com/signup?utm_medium=direct&utm_source=docs&utm_campaign=YBM_signup"
    button2Text="Learn more"
    button2Url="cloud-quickstart"
    imageAlt="Yugabyte cloud" imageUrl="/images/homepage/yugabyte-in-cloud.svg"
  >}}

  {{< sections/bottom-image-box
    title="Deploy dedicated clusters"
    description="Deploy single- and multi-region production clusters on Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Platform (GCP)."
    buttonText="Learn more"
    buttonUrl="cloud-basics/"
    imageAlt="Locally Laptop" imageUrl="/images/homepage/locally-laptop.svg"
  >}}
{{< /sections/2-boxes >}}

## Cluster basics

{{< sections/3-boxes>}}
  {{< sections/3-box-card
    title="Deploy"
    description="Create single- and multi-region clusters in a variety of topologies."
    buttonText="Learn More"
    buttonUrl="cloud-basics/"
  >}}

  {{< sections/3-box-card
    title="Secure"
    description="Authorize access to clusters and databases, download cluster certificates, and audit account activity."
    buttonText="Secure"
    buttonUrl="cloud-secure-clusters/"
  >}}

  {{< sections/3-box-card
    title="Connect"
    description="Connect to your cluster using Cloud Shell, a client shell, and from applications."
    buttonText="Connect"
    buttonUrl="cloud-connect/"
  >}}

  {{< sections/3-box-card
    title="Monitor"
    description="Monitor cluster performance and get notified of potential problems."
    buttonText="Monitor"
    buttonUrl="cloud-monitor/"
  >}}

  {{< sections/3-box-card
    title="Manage"
    description="Scale clusters, configure backups, set maintenance windows, and pause or delete clusters."
    buttonText="Manage"
    buttonUrl="cloud-clusters/"
  >}}
{{< /sections/3-boxes >}}

## More resources

{{< sections/3-boxes >}}
  {{< sections/3-box-card
  title="Manage your account"
  linkText1="Add Users to your account"
  linkUrl1="managed-security/manage-access/"
  linkText2="Manage billing"
  linkUrl2="cloud-admin/cloud-billing-profile/"
  linkText3="Automation"
  linkUrl3="managed-automation/"
  >}}

  {{< sections/3-box-card
  title="More Information"
  linkText1="What's new"
  linkUrl1="release-notes/"
  linkText2="Troubleshoot"
  linkUrl2="cloud-troubleshoot/"
  linkText3="FAQ"
  linkUrl3="../faq/yugabytedb-managed-faq/"
  >}}

  {{< sections/3-box-card
  title="Support"
  linkText1="Contact Support"
  linkUrl1="https://support.yugabyte.com/hc/en-us/requests/new?ticket_form_id=360003113431"
  linkTarget1="_blank"
  linkText2="YugabyteDB Managed Status"
  linkUrl2="https://status.yugabyte.cloud/"
    linkTarget2="_blank"
  linkText3="Join Our Community"
  linkUrl3="https://communityinviter.com/apps/yugabyte-db/register"
  linkTarget3="_blank"
  >}}
{{< /sections/3-boxes >}}

## Continue learning

{{< sections/3-boxes >}}
  {{< sections/3-box-card
  title="Build Applications"
  description="Start coding in your favorite programming language using these examples."
  buttonText="Get Started"
  buttonUrl="../tutorials/build-apps/"
  >}}

  {{< sections/3-box-card
  title="Yugabyte University"
  linkText1="YugabyteDB Managed Basics"
  linkUrl1="https://university.yugabyte.com/courses/yugabytedb-managed-basics"
  linkTarget1="_blank"
  linkText2="YSQL Exercises: Basic queries"
  linkUrl2="https://university.yugabyte.com/courses/ysql-exercises-simple-queries"
  linkTarget2="_blank"
  >}}

  {{< sections/3-box-card
  title="YouTube Channel"
  description="Learn how to use YugabyteDB Managed with this series of short tutorials."
  buttonText="Watch"
  buttonUrl="https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL8Z3vt4qJTkIAYWaUOE_CIntxTHho_pBh"
  buttonTarget="_blank"
  >}}
{{< /sections/3-boxes >}}

Commit message:

[doc][ybm] Changes for pricing plans #20900 (#22588)
* Changes for pricing plans

* costing page update for new pricing

* misc edits

* edits

* edit

* review comment

* review comment

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Aishwarya Chakravarthy  <achakravarthy@yugabyte.com>

* review comments

* Managed -> Aeon (cloud directories only)

* menus and shortcodes

* Stable: Managed -> Aeon

* v2.20: Managed -> Aeon

* fix typo

* Misc acronym fixes

* v2.18: Managed -> Aeon

* preview: Managed -> Aeon

* typos

* fix deep links

* purge stale links to corp site

* screenshot and billing edits

* review comments

---------

Co-authored-by: Aishwarya Chakravarthy <achakravarthy@yugabyte.com>

docs/content/preview/yugabyte-cloud/_index.md, after:

---
title: YugabyteDB Aeon
headerTitle: YugabyteDB Aeon
linkTitle: YugabyteDB Aeon
headcontent: Fully managed YugabyteDB-as-a-Service
aliases:
  - /preview/deploy/yugabyte-cloud/
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-cloud:
    identifier: yugabyte-cloud
    parent: yugabytedb-managed
    weight: 1
type: indexpage
breadcrumbDisable: true
resourcesIntro: Quick Links
resources:
  - title: Free Trial
    url: /preview/yugabyte-cloud/managed-freetrial/
  - title: What's New
    url: /preview/yugabyte-cloud/release-notes/
  - title: YugabyteDB Aeon FAQ
    url: /preview/faq/yugabytedb-managed-faq/
  - title: Video Tutorials
    url: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL8Z3vt4qJTkIAYWaUOE_CIntxTHho_pBh
cascade:
  unversioned: true
---

YugabyteDB Aeon is a fully managed YugabyteDB-as-a-Service that allows you to run YugabyteDB clusters on Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Platform (GCP).

{{<tip>}}
YugabyteDB Aeon SLA service availability is [99.99%](https://www.yugabyte.com/yugabytedb-managed-service-level-agreement/#:~:text=a%20minimum%20of-,99.99,-%25%20of%20the%20time). For the current status of the service, see [Status](https://status.yugabyte.cloud/).
{{</tip>}}

{{< sections/2-boxes >}}
  {{< sections/bottom-image-box
    title="Sign up to create a Sandbox cluster"
    description="Sign up, log in, and follow the built-in tutorial to create your first cluster and build a sample application. No credit card required."
    buttonText="Sign up"
    buttonTarget="_blank"
    buttonUrl="https://cloud.yugabyte.com/signup?utm_medium=direct&utm_source=docs&utm_campaign=YBM_signup"
    button2Text="Learn more"
    button2Url="cloud-quickstart"
    imageAlt="Yugabyte cloud" imageUrl="/images/homepage/yugabyte-in-cloud.svg"
  >}}

  {{< sections/bottom-image-box
    title="Deploy dedicated clusters"
    description="Deploy single- and multi-region production clusters on Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Platform (GCP)."
    buttonText="Learn more"
    buttonUrl="cloud-basics/"
    imageAlt="Locally Laptop" imageUrl="/images/homepage/locally-laptop.svg"
  >}}
{{< /sections/2-boxes >}}

## Cluster basics

{{< sections/3-boxes>}}
  {{< sections/3-box-card
    title="Deploy"
    description="Create single- and multi-region clusters in a variety of topologies."
    buttonText="Learn More"
    buttonUrl="cloud-basics/"
  >}}

  {{< sections/3-box-card
    title="Secure"
    description="Authorize access to clusters and databases, download cluster certificates, and audit account activity."
    buttonText="Secure"
    buttonUrl="cloud-secure-clusters/"
  >}}

  {{< sections/3-box-card
    title="Connect"
    description="Connect to your cluster using Cloud Shell, a client shell, and from applications."
    buttonText="Connect"
    buttonUrl="cloud-connect/"
  >}}

  {{< sections/3-box-card
    title="Monitor"
    description="Monitor cluster performance and get notified of potential problems."
    buttonText="Monitor"
    buttonUrl="cloud-monitor/"
  >}}

  {{< sections/3-box-card
    title="Manage"
    description="Scale clusters, configure backups, set maintenance windows, and pause or delete clusters."
    buttonText="Manage"
    buttonUrl="cloud-clusters/"
  >}}
{{< /sections/3-boxes >}}

## More resources

{{< sections/3-boxes >}}
  {{< sections/3-box-card
  title="Manage your account"
  linkText1="Add Users to your account"
  linkUrl1="managed-security/manage-access/"
  linkText2="Manage billing"
  linkUrl2="cloud-admin/cloud-billing-profile/"
  linkText3="Automation"
  linkUrl3="managed-automation/"
  >}}

  {{< sections/3-box-card
  title="More Information"
  linkText1="What's new"
  linkUrl1="release-notes/"
  linkText2="Troubleshoot"
  linkUrl2="cloud-troubleshoot/"
  linkText3="FAQ"
  linkUrl3="../faq/yugabytedb-managed-faq/"
  >}}

  {{< sections/3-box-card
  title="Support"
  linkText1="Contact Support"
  linkUrl1="https://support.yugabyte.com/hc/en-us/requests/new?ticket_form_id=360003113431"
  linkTarget1="_blank"
  linkText2="YugabyteDB Aeon Status"
  linkUrl2="https://status.yugabyte.cloud/"
    linkTarget2="_blank"
  linkText3="Join Our Community"
  linkUrl3="https://communityinviter.com/apps/yugabyte-db/register"
  linkTarget3="_blank"
  >}}
{{< /sections/3-boxes >}}

## Continue learning

{{< sections/3-boxes >}}
  {{< sections/3-box-card
  title="Build Applications"
  description="Start coding in your favorite programming language using these examples."
  buttonText="Get Started"
  buttonUrl="../tutorials/build-apps/"
  >}}

  {{< sections/3-box-card
  title="Yugabyte University"
  linkText1="YugabyteDB Aeon Basics"
  linkUrl1="https://university.yugabyte.com/courses/yugabytedb-managed-basics"
  linkTarget1="_blank"
  linkText2="YSQL Exercises: Basic queries"
  linkUrl2="https://university.yugabyte.com/courses/ysql-exercises-simple-queries"
  linkTarget2="_blank"
  >}}

  {{< sections/3-box-card
  title="YouTube Channel"
  description="Learn how to use YugabyteDB Aeon with this series of short tutorials."
  buttonText="Watch"
  buttonUrl="https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL8Z3vt4qJTkIAYWaUOE_CIntxTHho_pBh"
  buttonTarget="_blank"
  >}}
{{< /sections/3-boxes >}}
