docs/content/preview/yugabyte-cloud/managed-freetrial.md, before:

---
title: Start a free trial
linkTitle: Start a free trial
description: Start a free trial of YugabyteDB Managed to conduct POCs and performance testing.
headcontent: Explore all YugabyteDB Managed features
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-cloud:
    identifier: managed-freetrial
    parent: yugabytedb-managed
    weight: 20
type: docs
---

To go beyond the capabilities of the [Sandbox cluster](../cloud-basics/create-clusters/create-clusters-free/), start a free trial to receive free credits towards creating [Dedicated clusters](../cloud-basics/) and exploring other features in YugabyteDB Managed.

To start a free trial:

1. [Sign up](https://cloud.yugabyte.com/signup?utm_medium=direct&utm_source=docs&utm_campaign=YBM_signup).
1. [Log in](https://cloud.yugabyte.com/login).
1. Click **Start Free Trial** to display the **Start Your Free Trial** form.

    ![Enter your details](/images/yb-cloud/managed-trial-2.png)

1. If you have a promo code, enter it and click **Start Free Trial** to start your trial right away.

    Otherwise, enter your contact details and click **Start Free Trial**. A free trial link is sent to your email.

1. Click the link in the email to get started.

After the free trial begins, you can use your credits to create dedicated clusters in a [variety of topologies](../cloud-basics/create-clusters-topology/), including:

- Single region multi zone
- Replicated across regions
- Partition by region
- Read replicas

<!--[Choose a plan](https://www.yugabyte.com/yugabyte-cloud-standard-price-list/) any time. You won't be charged until your credits are used.-->
Add a payment method any time. You won't be charged until your credits are used.

## Limitations

- Only one free trial can be applied to an account.
- The free trial features the Professional plan. Enterprise plan features are not included.
- Not all regions are available during free trials.
- After your trial ends, depending on your plan, you may lose access to some features.

Commit message:

[doc][ybm] Changes for pricing plans #20900 (#22588)
* Changes for pricing plans

* costing page update for new pricing

* misc edits

* edits

* edit

* review comment

* review comment

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Aishwarya Chakravarthy  <achakravarthy@yugabyte.com>

* review comments

* Managed -> Aeon (cloud directories only)

* menus and shortcodes

* Stable: Managed -> Aeon

* v2.20: Managed -> Aeon

* fix typo

* Misc acronym fixes

* v2.18: Managed -> Aeon

* preview: Managed -> Aeon

* typos

* fix deep links

* purge stale links to corp site

* screenshot and billing edits

* review comments

---------

Co-authored-by: Aishwarya Chakravarthy <achakravarthy@yugabyte.com>

docs/content/preview/yugabyte-cloud/managed-freetrial.md, after:

---
title: Start a free trial
linkTitle: Start a free trial
description: Start a free trial of YugabyteDB Aeon to conduct POCs and performance testing.
headcontent: Explore all YugabyteDB Aeon features
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-cloud:
    identifier: managed-freetrial
    parent: yugabytedb-managed
    weight: 20
type: docs
---

To go beyond the capabilities of the [Sandbox cluster](../cloud-basics/create-clusters/create-clusters-free/), start a free trial to receive free credits towards creating [Dedicated clusters](../cloud-basics/) and exploring other features in YugabyteDB Aeon.

To start a free trial:

1. [Sign up](https://cloud.yugabyte.com/signup?utm_medium=direct&utm_source=docs&utm_campaign=YBM_signup).
1. [Log in](https://cloud.yugabyte.com/login).
1. Click **Start Free Trial** to display the **Start Your Free Trial** form.

    ![Enter your details](/images/yb-cloud/managed-trial-2.png)

1. If you have a promo code, enter it and click **Start Free Trial** to start your trial right away.

    Otherwise, enter your contact details and click **Start Free Trial**. A free trial link is sent to your email.

1. Click the link in the email to get started.

After the free trial begins, you can use your credits to create dedicated clusters in a [variety of topologies](../cloud-basics/create-clusters-topology/), including:

- Single region multi zone
- Replicated across regions
- Partition by region
- Read replicas

Choose a plan any time. You won't be charged until your credits are used.

- Only one free trial can be applied to an account.
- The free trial features the Professional plan. Enterprise plan features are not included.
- Not all regions are available during free trials.
- After your trial ends, depending on your plan, you may lose access to some features.
