docs/content/preview/architecture/docdb-replication/cdc-logical-replication.md, before:

---
title: Change data capture using Logical Replication in YugabyteDB
headerTitle: CDC using Logical Replication
linkTitle: CDC using Logical Replication
description: Learn how YugabyteDB supports asynchronous replication of data changes (inserts, updates, and deletes) to external databases or applications.
headContent: Asynchronous replication of data changes (inserts, updates, and deletes) to external databases or applications
badges: ea
aliases:
  - /preview/explore/logical-replication/
menu:
  preview:
    parent: architecture-docdb-replication
    identifier: architecture-docdb-replication-cdc-logical-replication
    weight: 500
type: docs
---

Change data capture (CDC) in YugabyteDB provides technology to ensure that any changes in data due to operations such as inserts, updates, and deletions are identified, captured, and made available for consumption by applications and other tools.

CDC using Logical Replication in YugabyteDB is based on the PostgreSQL Logical Replication model. The fundamental concept is that of the Replication Slot. A Replication Slot represents a stream of changes that can be replayed to the client in the order they were made on the origin server in a manner that preserves transactional consistency. This is the basis for the support for Transactional CDC in YugabyteDB. Where the strict requirements of Transactional CDC are not present, multiple replication slots can be used to stream changes from unrelated tables in parallel.

## Architecture

![Logical replication architecture](/images/architecture/cdc-logical-replication-architecture.png)

The following are the main components of the Yugabyte CDC solution:

1. CDC Service - Retrieves changes from the WAL of a specified shard starting from a given checkpoint.

2. Virtual WAL (VWAL) - Assembles changes from all the shards of user tables (under the publication) to maintain transactional consistency.

3. walsender - A special purpose PostgreSQL backend responsible for streaming changes to the client and handling acknowledgments.

### Data flow

Logical replication starts by copying a snapshot of the data on the publisher database. After that is done, changes on the publisher are streamed to the server as they occur in near real time.

To set up Logical Replication, an application will first have to create a replication slot. When a replication slot is created, a boundary is established between the snapshot data and the streaming changes. This boundary or `consistent_point` is a consistent state of the source database. It corresponds to a commit time (HybridTime value). Data from transactions with commit time <= commit time corresponding to the `consistent_point` are consumed as part of the initial snapshot. Changes from transactions with commit time greater than the commit time of the `consistent_point` are consumed in the streaming phase in transaction commit time order.

#### Initial snapshot

The initial snapshot data for each table is consumed by executing a corresponding snapshot query (SELECT statement) on that table. This snapshot query should be executed as of the database state corresponding to the `consistent_point`. This database state is represented by a value of HybridTime.

First, a `SET LOCAL yb_read_time TO '<consistent_point commit time> ht'` command should be executed on the connection (session). The SELECT statement corresponding to the snapshot query should then be executed as part of the same transaction.

The HybridTime value to use in the `SET LOCAL yb_read_time` command is the value of the `snapshot_name` field that is returned by the `CREATE_REPLICATION_SLOT` command. Alternatively, it can be obtained by querying the `pg_replication_slots` view.

During Snapshot consumption, the snapshot data from all tables will be from the same consistent state (`consistent_point`). At the end of Snapshot consumption, the state of the target system is at/based on the `consistent_point`. History of the tables as of the `consistent_point` is retained on the source until the snapshot is consumed.

#### Streaming data flow

YugabyteDB automatically splits user tables into multiple shards (also called tablets) using either a hash- or range-based strategy. The primary key for each row in the table uniquely identifies the location of the tablet in the row.

Each tablet has its own WAL. WAL is NOT in-memory, but it is disk persisted. Each WAL preserves the information on the changes involved in the transactions (or changes) for that tablet as well as additional metadata related to the transactions.

**Step 1 - Data flow from the tablet WAL to the VWAL**

![CDCService-VWAL](/images/architecture/cdc_service_vwal_interaction.png)

Each tablet sends changes in transaction commit time order. Further, in a transaction, the changes are in the order in which the operations were performed in the transaction.

**Step 2 - Sorting in the VWAL and sending transactions to the walsender**

![VWAL-walsender](/images/architecture/vwal_walsender_interaction.png)

VWAL collects changes across multiple tablets, assembles the transactions, assigns LSN to each change and transaction boundary (BEGIN, COMMIT) record, and sends the changes to the walsender in transaction commit time order.

**Step 3 - walsender to client**

The walsender sends changes to the output plugin, which filters them according to the slot's publication and converts them into the client's desired format. These changes are then streamed to the client using the appropriate streaming replication protocols determined by the output plugin. Yugabyte follows the same streaming replication protocols as defined in PostgreSQL.

<!--TODO (Siddharth): Fix the Links to the protocol section.

{{< note title="Note" >}}
Refer to [Replication Protocol](../../../explore/change-data-capture/using-logical-replication/#streaming-protocol) for more details.

{{< /note >}}

{{< tip title="Explore" >}}

See [Getting Started with Logical Replication](../../../explore/change-data-capture/using-logical-replication/getting-started/) to set up Logical Replication in YugabyteDB.

{{< /tip >}}
-->

Commit message:

[BACKPORT pg15-cherrypicks] all: Bulk port from master - 87
Summary:
 663e91c292 [PLAT-14988] Preselect index tables if the main table is selected
 5eeb87f277 [DOC] Remove restart from replicated-migrate start (#23606)
 14ec7f658a [PLAT-14987] Create universe failure due to some race condition in YBA
 a7fca3111b [PLAT-14956] yba installer non-root install guardrails
 bee3bdc650 [#23552] docdb: Do not clone DELETED/REPLACED tablets
 af8eb50101 [doc] CDC architecture page names (#23639)
 6d0295ddf5 [PLAT-14732]GFlag Groups local provider tests
 ebd45d3931 [#23576] DocDB: Fix flag xcluster_checkpoint_max_staleness_secs validation error message
 fa3a3a3528 Moving colocated tables to explore (#23597)
 4f785a6131 Adding troubleshooting content (#23583)
 d57ee5d3a7 added note (#23675)
 b8c17bbf39 [PLAT-14742]: Handle master failover in UI
 93c81d6e02 [#23668] YSQL: Handle OBJECT_NOT_EXISTS errors with Connection Manager enabled
 ad8a3666b4 [PLAT-13757][PLAT-15032][PLAT-15005] Add bootstrap summary page
 3f6409006f [#23661] YSQL: Disable all wal_level checks for logical replication
 435992ace5 [PLAT-15015] Adds option to install node-agent as user level unit & install it as user scoped as part of ynp
 600354c8c6 [PLAT-14483] Do not remove master from quorum during instance resizes
 1afa4a2b8c [#23624] YSQL: Fixing the tests failing due to large number of SET statements executed in deploy of ysql connection manager
 6994f31729 [#23591] YSQL, ASH: Make logs for no messenger during ASH collection vlog(2)

Test Plan: Jenkins: rebase: pg15-cherrypicks

Reviewers: jason, tfoucher

Subscribers: yql

Differential Revision: https://phorge.dev.yugabyte.com/D37614

docs/content/preview/architecture/docdb-replication/cdc-logical-replication.md, after:

---
title: Architecture for CDC using PostgreSQL protocol
headerTitle: CDC using PostgreSQL protocol
linkTitle: CDC using PostgreSQL protocol
description: Learn how YugabyteDB supports asynchronous replication of data changes (inserts, updates, and deletes) to external databases or applications.
headContent: Asynchronous replication of data changes (inserts, updates, and deletes) to external databases or applications
badges: ea
aliases:
  - /preview/explore/logical-replication/
menu:
  preview:
    parent: architecture-docdb-replication
    identifier: architecture-docdb-replication-cdc-logical-replication
    weight: 500
type: docs
---

Change data capture (CDC) in YugabyteDB provides technology to ensure that any changes in data due to operations such as inserts, updates, and deletions are identified, captured, and made available for consumption by applications and other tools.

CDC using PostgreSQL protocol in YugabyteDB is based on the PostgreSQL Logical Replication model. The fundamental concept is that of the Replication Slot. A Replication Slot represents a stream of changes that can be replayed to the client in the order they were made on the origin server in a manner that preserves transactional consistency. This is the basis for the support for Transactional CDC in YugabyteDB. Where the strict requirements of Transactional CDC are not present, multiple replication slots can be used to stream changes from unrelated tables in parallel.

{{<lead link="../../../explore/change-data-capture/">}}

See [Change data capture](../../../explore/change-data-capture/) in Explore for more details and limitations.

{{</lead>}}

## Architecture

![Logical replication architecture](/images/architecture/cdc-logical-replication-architecture.png)

The following are the main components of the Yugabyte CDC solution:

1. CDC Service - Retrieves changes from the WAL of a specified shard starting from a given checkpoint.

2. Virtual WAL (VWAL) - Assembles changes from all the shards of user tables (under the publication) to maintain transactional consistency.

3. walsender - A special purpose PostgreSQL backend responsible for streaming changes to the client and handling acknowledgments.

### Data flow

Logical replication starts by copying a snapshot of the data on the publisher database. After that is done, changes on the publisher are streamed to the server as they occur in near real time.

To set up Logical Replication, an application will first have to create a replication slot. When a replication slot is created, a boundary is established between the snapshot data and the streaming changes. This boundary or `consistent_point` is a consistent state of the source database. It corresponds to a commit time (HybridTime value). Data from transactions with commit time <= commit time corresponding to the `consistent_point` are consumed as part of the initial snapshot. Changes from transactions with commit time greater than the commit time of the `consistent_point` are consumed in the streaming phase in transaction commit time order.

#### Initial snapshot

The initial snapshot data for each table is consumed by executing a corresponding snapshot query (SELECT statement) on that table. This snapshot query should be executed as of the database state corresponding to the `consistent_point`. This database state is represented by a value of HybridTime.

First, a `SET LOCAL yb_read_time TO '<consistent_point commit time> ht'` command should be executed on the connection (session). The SELECT statement corresponding to the snapshot query should then be executed as part of the same transaction.

The HybridTime value to use in the `SET LOCAL yb_read_time` command is the value of the `snapshot_name` field that is returned by the `CREATE_REPLICATION_SLOT` command. Alternatively, it can be obtained by querying the `pg_replication_slots` view.

During Snapshot consumption, the snapshot data from all tables will be from the same consistent state (`consistent_point`). At the end of Snapshot consumption, the state of the target system is at/based on the `consistent_point`. History of the tables as of the `consistent_point` is retained on the source until the snapshot is consumed.

#### Streaming data flow

YugabyteDB automatically splits user tables into multiple shards (also called tablets) using either a hash- or range-based strategy. The primary key for each row in the table uniquely identifies the location of the tablet in the row.

Each tablet has its own WAL. WAL is NOT in-memory, but it is disk persisted. Each WAL preserves the information on the changes involved in the transactions (or changes) for that tablet as well as additional metadata related to the transactions.

**Step 1 - Data flow from the tablet WAL to the VWAL**

![CDCService-VWAL](/images/architecture/cdc_service_vwal_interaction.png)

Each tablet sends changes in transaction commit time order. Further, in a transaction, the changes are in the order in which the operations were performed in the transaction.

**Step 2 - Sorting in the VWAL and sending transactions to the walsender**

![VWAL-walsender](/images/architecture/vwal_walsender_interaction.png)

VWAL collects changes across multiple tablets, assembles the transactions, assigns LSN to each change and transaction boundary (BEGIN, COMMIT) record, and sends the changes to the walsender in transaction commit time order.

**Step 3 - walsender to client**

The walsender sends changes to the output plugin, which filters them according to the slot's publication and converts them into the client's desired format. These changes are then streamed to the client using the appropriate streaming replication protocols determined by the output plugin. Yugabyte follows the same streaming replication protocols as defined in PostgreSQL.

<!--TODO (Siddharth): Fix the Links to the protocol section.

{{< note title="Note" >}}
Refer to [Replication Protocol](../../../explore/change-data-capture/using-logical-replication/#streaming-protocol) for more details.

{{< /note >}}

{{< tip title="Explore" >}}

See [Getting Started with Logical Replication](../../../explore/change-data-capture/using-logical-replication/getting-started/) to set up Logical Replication in YugabyteDB.

{{< /tip >}}
-->
