docs/content/preview/yugabyte-cloud/managed-automation/managed-cli/_index.md, before:

---
title: ybm CLI
headerTitle: YugabyteDB Managed CLI
linkTitle: ybm CLI
description: Use YugabyteDB Managed CLI to create and manage YugabyteDB clusters.
headcontent: Manage cluster and account resources from the command line
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-cloud:
    identifier: managed-cli
    parent: managed-automation
    weight: 50
type: indexpage
showRightNav: true
rightNav:
  hideH4: true
---

The [YugabyteDB Managed Command Line Interface](https://github.com/yugabyte/ybm-cli) (ybm) is an open source tool that enables you to interact with YugabyteDB Managed accounts using commands in your command-line shell. With minimal configuration, you can start running commands from the command line that implement functionality equivalent to that provided by the browser-based YugabyteDB Managed interface.

{{< youtube id="wAtP7qzYhgU" title="Use the ybm CLI to manage clusters in YugabyteDB Managed" >}}

<div class="row">

  <div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
    <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="managed-cli-overview/">
      <div class="head">
        <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/develop/api-icon.png" aria-hidden="true" />
        <div class="title">Install</div>
      </div>
      <div class="body">
        Install and configure ybm CLI.
      </div>
    </a>
  </div>

  <div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
    <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="managed-cli-reference/">
      <div class="head">
        <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/deploy/enterprise/console.png" aria-hidden="true" />
        <div class="title">Reference</div>
      </div>
      <div class="body">
        ybm command reference.
      </div>
    </a>
  </div>

  <div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
    <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="managed-cli-examples/">
      <div class="head">
        <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/deploy/enterprise/console.png" aria-hidden="true" />
        <div class="title">Example workflows</div>
      </div>
      <div class="body">
        Explore example workflows using ybm CLI.
      </div>
    </a>
  </div>

</div>

Commit message:

Managed -> Aeon (cloud directories only)

docs/content/preview/yugabyte-cloud/managed-automation/managed-cli/_index.md, after:

---
title: ybm CLI
headerTitle: YugabyteDB Aeon CLI
linkTitle: ybm CLI
description: Use YugabyteDB Aeon CLI to create and manage YugabyteDB clusters.
headcontent: Manage cluster and account resources from the command line
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-cloud:
    identifier: managed-cli
    parent: managed-automation
    weight: 50
type: indexpage
showRightNav: true
rightNav:
  hideH4: true
---

The [YugabyteDB Aeon Command Line Interface](https://github.com/yugabyte/ybm-cli) (ybm) is an open source tool that enables you to interact with YugabyteDB Aeon accounts using commands in your command-line shell. With minimal configuration, you can start running commands from the command line that implement functionality equivalent to that provided by the browser-based YugabyteDB Aeon interface.

{{< youtube id="wAtP7qzYhgU" title="Use the ybm CLI to manage clusters in YugabyteDB Aeon" >}}

<div class="row">

  <div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
    <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="managed-cli-overview/">
      <div class="head">
        <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/develop/api-icon.png" aria-hidden="true" />
        <div class="title">Install</div>
      </div>
      <div class="body">
        Install and configure ybm CLI.
      </div>
    </a>
  </div>

  <div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
    <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="managed-cli-reference/">
      <div class="head">
        <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/deploy/enterprise/console.png" aria-hidden="true" />
        <div class="title">Reference</div>
      </div>
      <div class="body">
        ybm command reference.
      </div>
    </a>
  </div>

  <div class="col-12 col-md-6 col-lg-12 col-xl-6">
    <a class="section-link icon-offset" href="managed-cli-examples/">
      <div class="head">
        <img class="icon" src="/images/section_icons/deploy/enterprise/console.png" aria-hidden="true" />
        <div class="title">Example workflows</div>
      </div>
      <div class="body">
        Explore example workflows using ybm CLI.
      </div>
    </a>
  </div>

</div>
