---
title: TA-22935
headerTitle: Inconsistencies between system catalog and DocDB schema during DDL operations
headcontent: 25 June 2024
type: docs
showRightNav: true
cascade:
  unversioned: true
menu:
  preview_releases:
    identifier: ta-22935
    weight: 1
rightNav:
  hideH2: true
type: docs
---

|          Product           |  Affected Versions  |  Related Issues   | Fixed In |
| :------------------------- | :------------------ | :---------------- | :------- |
| {{<product "ysql">}}       | {{<release "2.18.0.0, 2.20.0.0, 2024.1.0.0">}} | {{<issue 22935>}} | {{<release "2.18.9.0, 2.20.5.0, 2024.1.2.0">}} |

## Description

When server-side caching of sequences is enabled by setting the flag `ysql_sequence_cache_method = server`, it can cause errors for columns using the sequences if multiple databases are present in the cluster, or if a database is dropped and recreated. Columns using sequences as primary keys may incorrectly return duplicate key errors, and unique constraint violations may also occur if the column has a unique constraint.

This issue arises because the same TServer cache entry is used across multiple databases, and sequence cache entries are never invalidated, remaining in memory till the TServer is restarted.

## Mitigation

If the cluster has `ysql_sequence_cache_method = server` enabled, then update the flag to use `ysql_sequence_cache_method = connection`.

## Details


By default, YugabyteDB caches sequence values for each YSQL connection. To improve performance, YugabyteDB added support for caching sequence values on the YB-TServer. You can enable this feature by setting the flag `ysql_sequence_cache_method = server`. By default, this flag is set to "connection".

For Tserver caching, the cache key is the OID of the sequence objects. PostgreSQL maintains unique OIDs within the database and thus multiple databases can allocate the same OID.  This can cause the sequences in two different databases to have the same OID. Since the cache key is OID, hence the different sequences in different databases will continue to use the same cache key which results in such sequences sharing the same cache in Tserver.

For TServer caching, the cache key is the OID (Object Identifier) of sequence objects. In PostgreSQL, each database maintains unique OIDs, but multiple databases can have the same OID. This means sequences in different databases might share the same OID. As the cache key is based on OID, different sequences in different databases will continue to use the same cache key, which results in sequences sharing the same cache in TServer.

When `ysql_sequence_cache_method` is set to "server", sequence cache entries are never invalidated and remain in memory until the TServer shuts down. As a result, if a database containing sequences is dropped and then recreated, it might produce errors due to outdated entries from the dropped sequences.

## Examples

The following example demonstrates the same TServer cache entry being used across two different sequences in two different databases. To reproduce the following issue, set the cluster flag `ysql_sequence_cache_method = server`.

1. Create two databases seqtest1 and seqtest2 as follows:

    ```sql
    create database seqtest1;
    create database seqtest2;
    ```

1. Connect to database `seqtest1` and create sequence `foo`. Allocate three values from `foo` by calling the function `nextval` three times as follows:

    ```sql
    \c seqtest1
    ```

    ```output
    You are now connected to database "seqtest1" as user "yugabyte".
    ```

    ```sql
    create sequence foo;
    select oid, relname from pg_class where relkind = 'S';
    ```

    ```output
      oid  | relname
    -------+---------
     16384 | foo
    (1 row)
    ```

    ```sql
    select nextval('foo');
    ```

    ```output
     nextval
    ---------
           1
    (1 row)
    ```

    ```sql
    select nextval('foo');
    ```

    ```output
    nextval
    ---------
           2
    (1 row)
    ```

    ```sql
    select nextval('foo');
    ```

    ```output
    nextval
    ---------
           3
    (1 row)
    ```

1. Connect to database seqtest2, create a new sequence `bar`, and allocate value by calling the function `nextval`.

    ```sql
    \c seqtest2
    seqtest2=# create sequence bar;
    select oid, relname from pg_class where relkind = 'S';
    ```

    ```output
      oid  | relname
    -------+---------
     16384 | foo
    (1 row)
    ```

    ```sql
    seqtest2=# select nextval('bar');
    ```

    ```output
     nextval
    ---------
           4
    (1 row)
    ```

    In this scenario, sequence `bar` has the same OID as sequence `foo`, and uses the same cache on the TServer. This results in the `nextval` function returning 4, which is the next available sequence value in the cache. The correct behavior would be to return 1, as this is first time values are allocated from the sequence `bar`, and the default for a sequence minimum value is 1.

    TServer sequence cache entries are never invalidated and reside in memory until the TServer shuts down, as shown in the following steps.

1. Drop the database `seqtest1` and 1seqtest2`, which drops all the objects, including sequences `foo` and `bar`. Create a new database `seqtest3` and connect to database `seqtest3`.

    ```sql
    drop database seqtest1;
    drop database seqtest2;
    create database seqtest3;
    \c seqtest3
    ```

    ```output
    You are now connected to database "seqtest3" as user "yugabyte".
    ```

1. Create a sequence `baz` in `seqtest3` and allocate value from sequence `baz` using `nextval`.

    ```sql
    create sequence baz;
    ```

    ```sql
    select oid, relname from pg_class where relkind = 'S';
    ```

    ```output
      oid  | relname
    -------+---------
     16384 | baz
    (1 row)
    ```

    ```sql
    select nextval('baz');
    ```

    ```output
    nextval
    ---------
           5
    (1 row)
    ```
