---
title: TA-31533
headerTitle: An xCluster target universe's YB-Master may crash when certain types of schema changes are applied after database upgrade
description: After upgrading an xCluster setup to v2025.1.1.0+ or v2025.2.0.0 to v2025.2.3.0, DDL on dependent objects can SIGSEGV the target universe YB-Master leader.
headcontent: 21 May 2026
type: docs
showRightNav: true
cascade:
  unversioned: true
menu:
  stable_releases:
    identifier: ta-31533
    weight: 1
rightNav:
  hideH2: true
---

|          Product           |  Affected Versions  |  Related Issues   | Fixed In |
| :------------------------- | :------------------ | :---------------- | :------- |
| {{<product "ybdb">}}       | {{<release "2025.1.1.0">}}+, {{<release "2025.2.0.0">}} to {{<release "2025.2.3.0">}} | {{<issue 24990>}}, {{<issue 27275>}} | Upcoming releases:<br> {{<release "2025.2.3.1">}}+, {{<release "2025.2.4">}}+, {{<release "2026.1">}} |

## Description

After upgrading an existing xCluster setup (of any xCluster type) to {{<release "2025.1.1.0">}} or later, when running certain DDLs (specifically, DDLs that modify tables' dependent objects such as commands that create, drop, or modify indexes, foreign keys, views, or triggers), the target universe's YB-Master leader process may SIGSEGV and enter a crash loop. This can also occur during the upgrade process.

The YB-Master core dump contains a stack trace similar to the following:

```output
* thread #1, name = 'yb-master', stop reason = signal SIGSEGV
  * frame #0: 0x000055faa5e1b2c3 yb-master`yb::master::CatalogManager::DoUpdateConsumerOnProducerMetadata(this=0x000071bc7fc09f80, replication_group_id=0x00007f9a07fd6a10, stream_id=0x00007f9a07fd69e0, producer_schema_version=6, consumer_schema_version=<unavailable>, colocation_id=<unavailable>, check_min_consumer_schema_version=<unavailable>, resp=0x000071bcff5c3508) at xrepl_catalog_manager.cc:4037:39
    frame #1: 0x000055faa5e1a8d7 yb-master`yb::master::CatalogManager::UpdateConsumerOnProducerMetadata(this=0x000071bc7fc09f80, req=0x000071bcff5c34c0, resp=0x000071bcff5c3508, rpc=0x00007f9a07fd6bc0) at xrepl_catalog_manager.cc:3975:10
    frame #2: 0x000055faa5c206bc yb-master`std::__1::__function::__func<void yb::master::MasterServiceBase::HandleIn<yb::master::CatalogManager, yb::master::UpdateConsumerOnProducerMetadataRequestPB, yb::master::UpdateConsumerOnProducerMetadataResponsePB>(...)::'lambda'(), ...>::operator()() [inlined] void yb::master::MasterServiceBase::HandleIn<yb::master::CatalogManager, yb::master::UpdateConsumerOnProducerMetadataRequestPB, yb::master::UpdateConsumerOnProducerMetadataResponsePB>(...)::'lambda'()::operator()() const at master_service_base-internal.h:158:14
...
```

### Root cause

Earlier DDLs may have put your universe (and certain tables in particular) in a problematic state. When in such a state, after an upgrade, any additional DDL on the specifically affected tables causes a crash loop.

This only applies to tables that have undergone the following:

* DDLs that affect the tables' dependent objects (for example, their indexes, foreign keys, views, or triggers) and,
* Tables have only had one or two (and not more) such DDLs applied to them before the upgrade.

Specific DDLs that can lead to this issue include, for example, `CREATE INDEX` and `ADD CONSTRAINT`. DDLs that modify the primary tables, which actually hold the physical rows of data (for example, `ALTER TABLE`), do not lead to this issue.

## Mitigation

A [verification script](https://gist.github.com/hulien22/5dafa71ee9aeb805f9225aeac9db93c9) is available to check whether your universe (and some particular tables) are in a problematic state. This script can be run either before or after upgrading; running it before upgrading is _strongly_ recommended.

### Before you upgrade

Run the verification script on any clusters with xCluster enabled. The script is read-only and only inspects some configuration settings; it has negligible impact on the universe's performance regardless of the universe's size and scale.

If the script identifies no affected schemas, proceed with the upgrade before performing any additional DDLs. You will be unaffected by this issue during and after the upgrade. After upgrading, you will never encounter this problem, even with additional DDLs. In short, upgrading permanently mitigates the problem.

If the script identifies affected schemas, then do one of the following:

* Upgrade only to a version with the fix (recommended), or
* For each affected table,

    1. Run the following on the source and then on the target (for bidirectional setups, run on both sides in either order):

    ```sql
    ALTER TABLE <table> ADD CONSTRAINT xcluster_schema_verification_fix CHECK (true) NOT VALID;
    ```

    ```sql
    ALTER TABLE <table> DROP CONSTRAINT xcluster_schema_verification_fix;
    ```

    1. Run the script again to verify. You should find no affected schemas. If you do, contact {{% support-general %}}.

    1. Upgrade (to any version). Per the previous paragraph, you will not encounter this problem again, even with additional DDLs.

### After you upgrade

If, after upgrading, your universe is hitting the crash loop:

1. Set the YB-Master Flag `xcluster_skip_schema_compatibility_checks_on_alter = true` on the YB-Masters to stop the crash looping.
1. Delete and recreate your xCluster setup.

Thereafter, you will not encounter this problem again, even with additional DDLs.

If, after upgrading, your universe is _not_ hitting the crash loop:

1. Run the validation script to check whether any problematic schemas exist.
1. If the script finds none, there are no issues. You will not encounter this problem (with the crash loop). Continue operations (including DDLs) as usual.
1. If the script finds affected schemas, avoid running any DDL on the affected tables. Doing so will cause crash loops. Upgrade to a version with the fix as soon as possible.

## Details

xCluster stores historical schema versions in order to correctly update packed row information. Previously, it only stored the current and previous schema versions; however, newer code requires a longer history of previous schema versions.

Commit [11482d6e](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/commit/11482d6e39ad80f7814ca5e0d5c454972139016a) incorrectly changed the protobuf field `old_consumer_schema_version` from a non-repeated field to a repeated field. When `old_consumer_schema_version` is set to the default value of `0` in older versions, but `old_producer_schema_version` is non-zero, then the new code only sees the non-zero value. This results in `old_consumer_schema_versions` and `old_producer_schema_versions` having different sizes in the new code, which then tries to iterate over both, causing a segfault.

This issue affects all variations of xCluster, including YSQL (both transactional and non-transactional, used uni-directionally and bi-directionally) and YCQL. It affects both xCluster Replication and xCluster DR.

## Related articles

* [xCluster replication](../../../architecture/docdb-replication/async-replication/)
* [Upgrades with xCluster and xCluster DR](../../../yugabyte-platform/manage-deployments/upgrade-software-install/#upgrades-with-xcluster-and-xcluster-dr)
