---
title: TA-22802
headerTitle: Inconsistencies between system catalog and DocDB schema during DDL operations
headcontent: 11 June 2024
type: docs
showRightNav: true
cascade:
  unversioned: true
menu:
  preview_releases:
    identifier: ta-22802
    weight: 1
rightNav:
  hideH2: true
type: docs
---

|          Product           |  Affected Versions  |  Related Issues   | Fixed In |
| :------------------------- | :------------------ | :---------------- | :------- |
| {{<product "ysql">}}       | {{<release "2.14.0.0">}}, [v2.16.0.0](/preview/releases/ybdb-releases/end-of-life/v2.16/#v2.16.0.0), {{<release "2.18.0.0, 2.20.0.0">}} | {{<issue 22802>}}, {{<issue 16712>}} | {{<release "2024.1">}}      |

## Description

When DDL operations are executed, the database writes metadata to both the PostgreSQL system catalog and DocDB schema. If a DDL fails, in certain specific scenarios, the PostgreSQL system catalog changes are rolled back but the DocDB schema changes are not, causing inconsistency between the PostgreSQL system catalog and DocDB schema.

Issues arising from inconsistency between the PostgreSQL system catalog and DocDB schema are describes as follows:

- Inconsistent backup

  When ALTER TABLE operations cause inconsistency between the PostgreSQL system catalog and DocDB schema, subsequent backups  cannot be restored. DML operations on the table are unaffected. Restoration of backups taken after the failed DDL fails  with the error message, "YSQL table not found: <table_name>_temp_old".

- Failure to add column

  Failed `Alter table Add Column` operations roll back changes in the PostgreSQL system catalog but do not roll back the DocDB schema. This can result in subsequent `Alter table Add Column` operations with the same column name failing with the error, "The column already exists".

- Orphan tables

  Failed DDL operations can cause tables to be present in DocDB but not in the PostgreSQL system catalog. Such tables are not accessible using the YSQL API but do not interfere with any future operations. Affected tables are listed in the YugabyteDB Anywhere UI, and can only be deleted manually.

## Mitigation

### Detection

You can use the following script to check for potential issues, which is available for Python2 and Python3 versions. The script should be copied to the [YB-Master leader](../../../architecture/yb-master/#table-creation) node and executed locally on the same node.

1. Login to the YB-Master leader node and use the following commands to download the scripts:

    The Python3 script is as follows:

    ```sh
    wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/yugabyte/yb-tools/main/ddl_atomicity/ddl_atomicity_check_script_python3.py
    ```

    The Python2 script is as follows:

    ```sh
    wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/yugabyte/yb-tools/main/ddl_atomicity/ddl_atomicity_check_script_python2.py
    ```

1. Execute the scripts using the following commands:

    For Python3:

    ```python
    python3 ddl_atomicity_check_script_python3.py
    ```

    For Python2:

    ```python
    python2 ddl_atomicity_check_script_python2.py
    ```

    The script takes the following optional arguments:

    ```sh
    -h, --help                   show this help message and exit
    --ysqlsh_path YSQLSH_PATH    Path to ysqlsh executable.
    --master_conf_path MASTER_CONF_PATH    Path to master configuration file.
    --master_interface_address MASTER_INTERFACE_ADDRESS    Master UI interface IP. If not provided, will be read from master_conf_path.
    --master_interface_port MASTER_INTERFACE_PORT    Port for the master UI interface.
    --ysql_host YSQL_HOST    Host for ysqlsh.
    --master_leader_only    Check if the node is the master leader and exit if it is not.
    --curl_path CURL_PATH    Path to curl executable.
    --grep_path GREP_PATH    Path to grep executable.
    --awk_path AWK_PATH    Path to awk executable.
    ```

The script returns one of the following messages when it detects an issue decribed in the preceding section.

- Inconsistent backup

  ```text
  Table <Table_name> with oid <Table_OID> and uuid <Table_UUID> exists in <database_name> but has a mismatched table name - TABLE NAME NEEDS TO BE FIXED
  ```

- Failure to Add Column

  ```text
  Column <colunm_name> does not exist in table <Table_name> in database <database_name> - ORPHANED COLUMN NEEDS TO BE DROPPED
  ```

- Orphan tables

  ```text
  Table <Table_name> with oid <Table_OID> and uuid <Table_UUID> does not exist in database <database_name> - ORPHANED TABLE NEEDS TO BE DROPPED
  ```

### Issue mitigaton

#### Inconsistent backup

**Option 1**: Take a new back up using the following steps:

1. Rename the table for which restore is failing as follows. The first RENAME is required to align the PostgreSQL system catalog entries with the DocDB schema. The second RENAME renames the table to the original intended name. This step must be repeated for each table for which the issue has been reported.

    ```sql
    ALTER TABLE <table_name> RENAME TO <table_name>_temp_old;
    ALTER TABLE <table_name>_temp_old RENAME TO <table_name>;
    ```

1. Take a new backup. Restores of subsequent backups should be successful.

**Option 2**: Modify an already taken backup if an existing backup requires a fix as follows:

1. Modify the schema dump taken by the [ysql_dump](../../../admin/ysql-dump/) by changing all references to `<table_name>` with `<table_name>_temp_old` for all the tables for which failed restore was previously reported.

1. After restoring the backup, the table can be renamed to the original intended name.

    ```sql
    ALTER TABLE <table_name>_temp_old RENAME TO <table_name>;
    ```

1. Contact [Yugabyte Support](https://support.yugabyte.com) if further help is needed to fix the backup schema file.

#### Failure to Add Column

Contact [Yugabyte Support](https://support.yugabyte.com) to resolve the issue.

#### Orphan tables

Contact [Yugabyte Support](https://support.yugabyte.com) to resolve the issue.

## Details

ALTER TABLE operations such as adding primary key (ALTER TABLE ADD PRIMARY KEY), or changing type of column (ALTER TABLE ALTER COLUMN TYPE) require rewriting the table. To achieve that, ALTER TABLE operations rename the table to `<table_name>_temp_old`, create a new table, and then drop the old one.

If this operation fails after the rename, the PostgreSQL system catalog will be rolled back; however, the associated DocDB table will have the name `<table_name>_temp_old`.

If a backup is taken on a database in this state, when that backup is restored, the PostgreSQL system catalog refers to the table using the original name, while the DocDB schema refers to the table using the name `<table_name>_temp_old`, thus causing inconsistency and restore operation failing with an error message: "YSQL table not found: <table_name>_temp_old".

DML operations on the table continue normally since DML operations refer to the table by OID, not by name.

When ADD COLUMN operations fail, the DocDB schema for newly added columns is not rolled back, so subsequent ADD COLUMN operations fail with the error message "The column already exists".
