---
title: TA-20827
headerTitle: Correctness issue for queries using SELECT DISTINCT
headcontent: 06 Feb 2024
type: docs
showRightNav: true
cascade:
  unversioned: true
rightNav:
  hideH2: true
type: docs
---

|          Product           |  Affected Versions  |  Related Issues   | Fixed In |
| :------------------------- | :------------------ | :---------------- | :------- |
| {{<product "ysql">}}       | {{<release "2.20.1.x">}} | {{<issue 20827>}} | {{<release "2.20.2.0, 2.21.1.0">}}      |

## Description

The impacted releases contain a correctness issue for queries using the SELECT DISTINCT clause. The queries may return incorrect results when the following conditions are true.

- BatchNestedLoopJoin is enabled
- JOIN clause is present in the query
- A DISTINCT clause is present in the query
- The table has range indexes

The issue does not apply to hash or merge joins.

## Mitigation

Upgrade to a release with the fix.

## Details

- The issue is based on how the query planner handles the optimization of DISTINCT operations in the presence of join conditions involving columns from the inner relation.
- The issue concerns a query like `SELECT DISTINCT t2.k FROM t1 JOIN t2 ON t1.k = t2.k`; where a distinct index scan is chosen on table t2 (inner relation).
- Previously, the planner erroneously treated `t2.k` as a constant during the distinct index scan because the condition `t2.k = <some terms not related to t2>` made it appear constant. However, this assumption is incorrect in batch nested loop joins because a single scan on t2 can return multiple values for `t2.k` matching different values from `t1.k`.
- The correct behavior is to include `t2.k` in the distinct prefix (the columns used to eliminate duplicates) unless the condition is of the form `t2.k = C`, where `C` is a true constant value.
- In the case of a nested loop join with `foreach $1 in t1.k do; distinct index scan on t2 where t2.k = $1` , it is correct to treat `t2.k` as a constant and exclude it from the distinct prefix. But for a batch nested loop join with `foreach ($1, ..., $1024) in t1.k do; distinct index scan on t2 where t2.k in ($1, ..., $1024)`, it is incorrect to treat `t2.k` as a constant because the scan can return multiple values for `t2.k`.
- The issue does not apply to hash or merge joins.
