managed/yba-cli/docs/yba_backup_schedule_create.md, before:

## yba backup schedule create

Create a YugabyteDB Anywhere universe backup schedule

### Synopsis

Create an universe backup schedule in YugabyteDB Anywhere

```
yba backup schedule create [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --schedule-name string                       [Required] Schedule name. Name of the schedule to perform universe backups
      --cron-expression string                     Cron expression to manage the backup schedules
      --schedule-frequency-in-secs int             Backup frequency to manage the backup schedules
      --incremental-backup-frequency-in-secs int   Incremental backup frequency to manage the incremental backup schedules
      --universe-name string                       [Required] Universe name. Name of the universe to be backed up
      --storage-config-name string                 [Required] Storage config to be used for taking the backup
      --table-type string                          [Required] Table type. Allowed values: ysql, ycql, yedis
      --time-before-delete-in-ms int               [Optional] Retention time of the backup in milliseconds
      --keyspace-info stringArray                  [Optional] Keyspace info to perform backup operation.If no keyspace info is provided, then all the keyspaces of the table type specified are backed up. If the user wants to take backup of a subset of keyspaces, then the user has to specify the keyspace info. Provide the following semicolon separated fields as key value pairs: "keyspace-name=<keyspace-name>;table-names=<table-name1>,<table-name2>,<table-name3>;table-ids=<table-id1>,<table-id2>,<table-id3>". The table-names and table-ids attributes have to be specified as comma separated values.Keyspace name is required value. Table names and Table ids are optional values and are needed only for YCQL.Example: --keyspace-info keyspace-name=cassandra;table-names=table1,table2;table-ids=1e683b86-7858-44d1-a1f6-406f50a4e56e,19a34a5e-3a19-4070-9d79-805ed713ce7d --keyspace-info keyspace-name=cassandra2;table-names=table3,table4;table-ids=e5b83a7c-130c-40c0-95ff-ec1d9ecff616,bc92d473-2e10-4f76-8bd1-9ca9741890fd
      --use-tablespaces                            [Optional] Backup tablespaces information as part of the backup
      --sse                                        [Optional] Enable sse while persisting the data in AWS S3 (default true)
  -h, --help                                       help for create
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
  -a, --apiToken string    YugabyteDB Anywhere api token.
      --config string      Config file, defaults to $HOME/.yba-cli.yaml
      --debug              Use debug mode, same as --logLevel debug.
      --disable-color      Disable colors in output. (default false)
  -H, --host string        YugabyteDB Anywhere Host (default "http://localhost:9000")
  -l, --logLevel string    Select the desired log level format. Allowed values: debug, info, warn, error, fatal. (default "info")
  -o, --output string      Select the desired output format. Allowed values: table, json, pretty. (default "table")
      --timeout duration   Wait command timeout, example: 5m, 1h. (default 168h0m0s)
      --wait               Wait until the task is completed, otherwise it will exit immediately. (default true)
```

### SEE ALSO

* [yba backup schedule](yba_backup_schedule.md)	 - Manage YugabyteDB Anywhere universe backup schedules

Commit message:

[BACKPORT pg15-cherrypicks] all: Bulk port from master - 89
Summary:
 f45c6a2abe Integrating budibase and YB (#23678)
 d6d60eefb4 [doc] Enhanced PG mode (#22887)
 d0dfe635c2 [#23482] CDCSDK: Add an option to disable dynamic table addition while creating a stream
 51608d840a [doc] Add Python smart driver PyPI link (#23727)
 4b4c201640 [#23655] YSQL: Handle SIGTERM in pg_cron
 3edf377a1d [PLAT] Rename YugaWare logs to Platform logs
 b9faf1820d [#23543] docdb: Get colocated schema version correctly in WriteQuery
 cc43d5addd [#23728] xClusterDDLRepl: Avoid colocating ddlrepl system tables
 f448fbbaf4 [PLAT-14039][YBA CLI]Refactor backup commands
 9239ede24a [PLAT-14813][PLAT-14812][YBA CLI] Encryption in Transit list describe and delete
 8f1c69121f [PLAT-3593]Integrate collection of promdumps for prometheus metrics with support bundle
 64e9a3a812 [#23588] YSQL: Change calculation for finding net connections with warmup random mode in ysql connection manager
 60c5e44cbe [PLAT-15061] Update integration page naming

Merge:

- postgres.c:
  - quickdie: YB master 4b4c2016409901982174e9240084dddf85a94e87 adds
    quickdie as SIGTERM signal handler for pg_cron.  quickdie is not
    built to expect any signal besides SIGQUIT.  Adjust the logic to
    handle SIGTERM.

Test Plan: Jenkins: rebase: pg15-cherrypicks

Reviewers: jason, tfoucher

Differential Revision: https://phorge.dev.yugabyte.com/D37684

managed/yba-cli/docs/yba_backup_schedule_create.md, after:

## yba backup schedule create

Create a YugabyteDB Anywhere universe backup schedule

### Synopsis

Create an universe backup schedule in YugabyteDB Anywhere

```
yba backup schedule create [flags]
```

### Options

```
  -n, --name string                                [Required] Schedule name. Name of the schedule to perform universe backups
      --cron-expression string                     [Optional] Cron expression to manage the backup schedules. Provide either cron-expression or schedule-frequency-in-secs. If both are provided, cron-expression takes precedence.
      --schedule-frequency-in-secs int             [Optional] Backup frequency to manage the backup schedules. Provide either schedule-frequency-in-secs or cron-expression. If both are provided, cron-expression takes precedence.
      --incremental-backup-frequency-in-secs int   [Optional] Incremental backup frequency to manage the incremental backup schedules
      --universe-name string                       [Required] Universe name. Name of the universe to be backed up
      --storage-config-name string                 [Required] Storage config to be used for taking the backup
      --table-type string                          [Required] Table type. Allowed values: ysql, ycql, yedis
      --time-before-delete-in-ms int               [Optional] Retention time of the backup in milliseconds
      --keyspace-info stringArray                  [Optional] Keyspace info to perform backup operation.If no keyspace info is provided, then all the keyspaces of the table type specified are backed up. If the user wants to take backup of a subset of keyspaces, then the user has to specify the keyspace info. Provide the following semicolon separated fields as key value pairs, enclose the string with quotes: ""keyspace-name=<keyspace-name>;table-names=<table-name1>,<table-name2>,<table-name3>;table-ids=<table-id1>,<table-id2>,<table-id3>"". The table-names and table-ids attributes have to be specified as comma separated values.Keyspace name is required value. Table names and Table ids are optional values and are needed only for YCQL.Example: --keyspace-info "keyspace-name=cassandra;table-names=table1,table2;table-ids=1e683b86-7858-44d1-a1f6-406f50a4e56e,19a34a5e-3a19-4070-9d79-805ed713ce7d" --keyspace-info "keyspace-name=cassandra2;table-names=table3,table4;table-ids=e5b83a7c-130c-40c0-95ff-ec1d9ecff616,bc92d473-2e10-4f76-8bd1-9ca9741890fd"
      --use-tablespaces                            [Optional] Backup tablespaces information as part of the backup.
      --sse                                        [Optional] Enable sse while persisting the data in AWS S3. (default true)
  -h, --help                                       help for create
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
  -a, --apiToken string    YugabyteDB Anywhere api token.
      --config string      Config file, defaults to $HOME/.yba-cli.yaml
      --debug              Use debug mode, same as --logLevel debug.
      --disable-color      Disable colors in output. (default false)
  -H, --host string        YugabyteDB Anywhere Host (default "http://localhost:9000")
  -l, --logLevel string    Select the desired log level format. Allowed values: debug, info, warn, error, fatal. (default "info")
  -o, --output string      Select the desired output format. Allowed values: table, json, pretty. (default "table")
      --timeout duration   Wait command timeout, example: 5m, 1h. (default 168h0m0s)
      --wait               Wait until the task is completed, otherwise it will exit immediately. (default true)
```

### SEE ALSO

* [yba backup schedule](yba_backup_schedule.md)	 - Manage YugabyteDB Anywhere universe backup schedules
