docs/content/v2.18/drivers-orms/python/yugabyte-psycopg2.md, before:

---
title: YugabyteDB Psycopg2 Smart Driver for YSQL
headerTitle: Connect an application
linkTitle: Connect an app
description: Connect a Python application using YugabyteDB Psycopg2 Smart Driver for YSQL
menu:
  v2.18:
    identifier: yugabyte-psycopg2-driver
    parent: python-drivers
    weight: 400
type: docs
---

<ul class="nav nav-tabs-alt nav-tabs-yb">
  <li class="active">
    <a href="../yugabyte-psycopg2/" class="nav-link">
      YSQL
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="../ycql/" class="nav-link">
      YCQL
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

<ul class="nav nav-tabs-alt nav-tabs-yb">
  <li >
    <a href="../yugabyte-psycopg2" class="nav-link active">
      <i class="icon-postgres" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      YugabyteDB Psycopg2 Smart Driver
    </a>
  </li>
  <li >
    <a href="../postgres-psycopg2" class="nav-link">
      <i class="icon-postgres" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      PostgreSQL Psycopg2 Driver
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

The [Yugabyte Psycopg2 smart driver](https://github.com/yugabyte/psycopg2) is a Python driver for [YSQL](../../../api/ysql/) built on the [PostgreSQL psycopg2 driver](https://github.com/psycopg/psycopg2), with additional [connection load balancing](../../smart-drivers/) features.

{{< note title="YugabyteDB Managed" >}}

To use smart driver load balancing features when connecting to clusters in YugabyteDB Managed, applications must be deployed in a VPC that has been peered with the cluster VPC. For applications that access the cluster from a non-peered network, use the upstream PostgreSQL driver instead; in this case, the cluster performs the load balancing. Applications that use smart drivers from non-peered networks fall back to the upstream driver behaviour automatically. For more information, refer to [Using smart drivers with YugabyteDB Managed](../../smart-drivers/#using-smart-drivers-with-yugabytedb-managed).

The Yugabyte Psycopg2 smart driver does not support SSL mode verify-full for clusters in YugabyteDB Managed. Use verify-ca or the upstream psycopg2 driver.

{{< /note >}}

## CRUD operations

The following sections demonstrate how to perform common tasks required for Python application development using the YugabyteDB Psycopg2 smart driver.

To start building your application, make sure you have met the [prerequisites](../#prerequisites).

### Step 1: Add the YugabyteDB driver dependency

Building Psycopg2 requires a few prerequisites (a C compiler and some development packages). Check the [installation instructions](https://www.psycopg.org/docs/install.html#build-prerequisites) and [the FAQ](https://www.psycopg.org/docs/faq.html#faq-compile) for details.

The YugabyteDB Psycopg2 requires PostgreSQL version 12 or later (preferably 14).

After you've installed the prerequisites, install psycopg2-yugabytedb like any other Python package, using pip to download it from [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/psycopg2-yugabytedb/):

```sh
$ pip install psycopg2-yugabytedb
```

Or, you can use the setup.py script if you've downloaded the source package locally:

```sh
$ python setup.py build
$ sudo python setup.py install
```

### Step 2: Set up the database connection

The following table describes the connection parameters required to connect, including [smart driver parameters](../../smart-drivers/) for uniform and topology load balancing.

| Parameter | Description | Default |
| :-------- | :---------- | :------ |
| host | Host name of the YugabyteDB instance. You can also enter [multiple addresses](#use-multiple-addresses). | localhost |
| port | Listen port for YSQL | 5433 |
| database/dbname | Database name | yugabyte |
| user | User connecting to the database | yugabyte |
| password | User password | yugabyte |
| `load_balance` | [Uniform load balancing](../../smart-drivers/#cluster-aware-connection-load-balancing) | Defaults to upstream driver behavior unless set to 'true' |
| `topology_keys` | [Topology-aware load balancing](../../smart-drivers/#topology-aware-connection-load-balancing) | If `load_balance` is true, uses uniform load balancing unless set to comma-separated geo-locations in the form `cloud.region.zone`. |

You can provide the connection details in one of the following ways:

- Connection string:

  ```python
  "dbname=database_name host=hostname port=5433 user=username password=password load_balance=true topology_keys=cloud.region.zone1,cloud.region.zone2"
  ```

- Connection dictionary:

  ```python
  user = 'username', password='xxx', host = 'hostname', port = '5433', dbname = 'database_name', load_balance='true', topology_keys='cloud.region.zone1,cloud.region.zone2'
  ```

The following is an example connection string for connecting to YugabyteDB:

```python
conn = psycopg2.connect(dbname='yugabyte',host='localhost',port='5433',user='yugabyte',password='yugabyte',load_balance='true')
```

After the driver establishes the initial connection, it fetches the list of available servers from the cluster, and load-balances subsequent connection requests across these servers.

#### Use multiple addresses

You can specify multiple hosts in the connection string to provide alternative options during the initial connection in case the primary address fails.

{{< tip title="Tip">}}
To obtain a list of available hosts, you can connect to any cluster node and use the `yb_servers()` YSQL function.
{{< /tip >}}

Delimit the addresses using commas, as follows:

```python
conn = psycopg2.connect(dbname='yugabyte',host='host1,host2,host3',port='5433',user='yugabyte',password='yugabyte',load_balance='true')
```

The hosts are only used during the initial connection attempt. If the first host is down when the driver is connecting, the driver attempts to connect to the next host in the string, and so on.

#### Use SSL

The following table describes the connection parameters required to connect using SSL.

| Parameter | Description | Default |
| :-------- | :---------- | :------ |
| sslmode | SSL mode | prefer |
| sslrootcert | path to the root certificate on your computer | ~/.postgresql/ |

The following is an example for connecting to a YugabyteDB cluster with SSL enabled:

```python
conn = psycopg2.connect("host=<hostname> port=5433 dbname=yugabyte user=<username> password=<password> load_balance=true sslmode=verify-full sslrootcert=/path/to/root.crt")
```

The Yugabyte Psycopg2 smart driver does not support SSL mode verify-full for clusters in [YugabyteDB Managed](https://www.yugabyte.com/cloud/). Use verify-ca or the upstream psycopg2 driver. If your cluster is on YugabyteDB Managed, use the cluster credentials for user and password, and [download the SSL Root certificate](../../../yugabyte-cloud/cloud-connect/connect-applications/).

### Step 3: Write your application

Create a new Python file called `QuickStartApp.py` in the base package directory of your project.

Copy the following sample code to set up tables and query the table contents. Replace the connection string `connString` with the cluster credentials and SSL certificate, if required.

```python
import psycopg2

# Create the database connection.

connString = "host=127.0.0.1 port=5433 dbname=yugabyte user=yugabyte password=yugabyte load_balance=True"

conn = psycopg2.connect(connString)

# Open a cursor to perform database operations.
# The default mode for psycopg2 is "autocommit=false".

conn.set_session(autocommit=True)
cur = conn.cursor()

# Create the table. (It might preexist.)

cur.execute(
  """
  DROP TABLE IF EXISTS employee
  """)

cur.execute(
  """
  CREATE TABLE employee (id int PRIMARY KEY,
                        name varchar,
                        age int,
                        language varchar)
  """)
print("Created table employee")
cur.close()

# Take advantage of ordinary, transactional behavior for DMLs.

conn.set_session(autocommit=False)
cur = conn.cursor()

# Insert a row.

cur.execute("INSERT INTO employee (id, name, age, language) VALUES (%s, %s, %s, %s)",
            (1, 'John', 35, 'Python'))
print("Inserted (id, name, age, language) = (1, 'John', 35, 'Python')")

# Query the row.

cur.execute("SELECT name, age, language FROM employee WHERE id = 1")
row = cur.fetchone()
print("Query returned: %s, %s, %s" % (row[0], row[1], row[2]))

# Commit and close down.

conn.commit()
cur.close()
conn.close()
```

## Run the application

Run the project `QuickStartApp.py` using the following command:

```python
python3 QuickStartApp.py
```

You should see output similar to the following:

```text
Created table employee
Inserted (id, name, age, language) = (1, 'John', 35, 'Python')
Query returned: John, 35, Python
```

If there is no output or you get an error, verify the parameters included in the connection string.

## Limitations

Currently, [PostgreSQL psycopg2 driver](https://github.com/psycopg/psycopg2) and [Yugabyte Psycopg2 smart driver](https://github.com/yugabyte/psycopg2) _cannot_ be used in the same environment.

## Learn more

- Refer to [YugabyteDB Psycopg2 driver reference](../../../reference/drivers/python/yugabyte-psycopg2-reference/) and [Try it out](../../../reference/drivers/python/yugabyte-psycopg2-reference/#try-it-out) for detailed smart driver examples.
- [YugabyteDB smart drivers for YSQL](../../smart-drivers/)
- Build Python applications using [PostgreSQL Psycopg2 smart driver](../postgres-psycopg2/)
- Build Python applications using [Django](../django/)
- Build Python applications using [SQLAlchemy](../sqlalchemy/)

Commit message:

[doc][ybm] Changes for pricing plans #20900 (#22588)
* Changes for pricing plans

* costing page update for new pricing

* misc edits

* edits

* edit

* review comment

* review comment

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Aishwarya Chakravarthy  <achakravarthy@yugabyte.com>

* review comments

* Managed -> Aeon (cloud directories only)

* menus and shortcodes

* Stable: Managed -> Aeon

* v2.20: Managed -> Aeon

* fix typo

* Misc acronym fixes

* v2.18: Managed -> Aeon

* preview: Managed -> Aeon

* typos

* fix deep links

* purge stale links to corp site

* screenshot and billing edits

* review comments

---------

Co-authored-by: Aishwarya Chakravarthy <achakravarthy@yugabyte.com>

docs/content/v2.18/drivers-orms/python/yugabyte-psycopg2.md, after:

---
title: YugabyteDB Psycopg2 Smart Driver for YSQL
headerTitle: Connect an application
linkTitle: Connect an app
description: Connect a Python application using YugabyteDB Psycopg2 Smart Driver for YSQL
menu:
  v2.18:
    identifier: yugabyte-psycopg2-driver
    parent: python-drivers
    weight: 400
type: docs
---

<ul class="nav nav-tabs-alt nav-tabs-yb">
  <li class="active">
    <a href="../yugabyte-psycopg2/" class="nav-link">
      YSQL
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="../ycql/" class="nav-link">
      YCQL
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

<ul class="nav nav-tabs-alt nav-tabs-yb">
  <li >
    <a href="../yugabyte-psycopg2" class="nav-link active">
      <i class="icon-postgres" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      YugabyteDB Psycopg2 Smart Driver
    </a>
  </li>
  <li >
    <a href="../postgres-psycopg2" class="nav-link">
      <i class="icon-postgres" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      PostgreSQL Psycopg2 Driver
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

The [Yugabyte Psycopg2 smart driver](https://github.com/yugabyte/psycopg2) is a Python driver for [YSQL](../../../api/ysql/) built on the [PostgreSQL psycopg2 driver](https://github.com/psycopg/psycopg2), with additional [connection load balancing](../../smart-drivers/) features.

{{< note title="YugabyteDB Aeon" >}}

To use smart driver load balancing features when connecting to clusters in YugabyteDB Aeon, applications must be deployed in a VPC that has been peered with the cluster VPC. For applications that access the cluster from a non-peered network, use the upstream PostgreSQL driver instead; in this case, the cluster performs the load balancing. Applications that use smart drivers from non-peered networks fall back to the upstream driver behaviour automatically. For more information, refer to [Using smart drivers with YugabyteDB Aeon](../../smart-drivers/#using-smart-drivers-with-yugabytedb-aeon).

The Yugabyte Psycopg2 smart driver does not support SSL mode verify-full for clusters in YugabyteDB Aeon. Use verify-ca or the upstream psycopg2 driver.

{{< /note >}}

## CRUD operations

The following sections demonstrate how to perform common tasks required for Python application development using the YugabyteDB Psycopg2 smart driver.

To start building your application, make sure you have met the [prerequisites](../#prerequisites).

### Step 1: Add the YugabyteDB driver dependency

Building Psycopg2 requires a few prerequisites (a C compiler and some development packages). Check the [installation instructions](https://www.psycopg.org/docs/install.html#build-prerequisites) and [the FAQ](https://www.psycopg.org/docs/faq.html#faq-compile) for details.

The YugabyteDB Psycopg2 requires PostgreSQL version 12 or later (preferably 14).

After you've installed the prerequisites, install psycopg2-yugabytedb like any other Python package, using pip to download it from [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/psycopg2-yugabytedb/):

```sh
$ pip install psycopg2-yugabytedb
```

Or, you can use the setup.py script if you've downloaded the source package locally:

```sh
$ python setup.py build
$ sudo python setup.py install
```

### Step 2: Set up the database connection

The following table describes the connection parameters required to connect, including [smart driver parameters](../../smart-drivers/) for uniform and topology load balancing.

| Parameter | Description | Default |
| :-------- | :---------- | :------ |
| host | Host name of the YugabyteDB instance. You can also enter [multiple addresses](#use-multiple-addresses). | localhost |
| port | Listen port for YSQL | 5433 |
| database/dbname | Database name | yugabyte |
| user | User connecting to the database | yugabyte |
| password | User password | yugabyte |
| `load_balance` | [Uniform load balancing](../../smart-drivers/#cluster-aware-connection-load-balancing) | Defaults to upstream driver behavior unless set to 'true' |
| `topology_keys` | [Topology-aware load balancing](../../smart-drivers/#topology-aware-connection-load-balancing) | If `load_balance` is true, uses uniform load balancing unless set to comma-separated geo-locations in the form `cloud.region.zone`. |

You can provide the connection details in one of the following ways:

- Connection string:

  ```python
  "dbname=database_name host=hostname port=5433 user=username password=password load_balance=true topology_keys=cloud.region.zone1,cloud.region.zone2"
  ```

- Connection dictionary:

  ```python
  user = 'username', password='xxx', host = 'hostname', port = '5433', dbname = 'database_name', load_balance='true', topology_keys='cloud.region.zone1,cloud.region.zone2'
  ```

The following is an example connection string for connecting to YugabyteDB:

```python
conn = psycopg2.connect(dbname='yugabyte',host='localhost',port='5433',user='yugabyte',password='yugabyte',load_balance='true')
```

After the driver establishes the initial connection, it fetches the list of available servers from the cluster, and load-balances subsequent connection requests across these servers.

#### Use multiple addresses

You can specify multiple hosts in the connection string to provide alternative options during the initial connection in case the primary address fails.

{{< tip title="Tip">}}
To obtain a list of available hosts, you can connect to any cluster node and use the `yb_servers()` YSQL function.
{{< /tip >}}

Delimit the addresses using commas, as follows:

```python
conn = psycopg2.connect(dbname='yugabyte',host='host1,host2,host3',port='5433',user='yugabyte',password='yugabyte',load_balance='true')
```

The hosts are only used during the initial connection attempt. If the first host is down when the driver is connecting, the driver attempts to connect to the next host in the string, and so on.

#### Use SSL

The following table describes the connection parameters required to connect using SSL.

| Parameter | Description | Default |
| :-------- | :---------- | :------ |
| sslmode | SSL mode | prefer |
| sslrootcert | path to the root certificate on your computer | ~/.postgresql/ |

The following is an example for connecting to a YugabyteDB cluster with SSL enabled:

```python
conn = psycopg2.connect("host=<hostname> port=5433 dbname=yugabyte user=<username> password=<password> load_balance=true sslmode=verify-full sslrootcert=/path/to/root.crt")
```

The Yugabyte Psycopg2 smart driver does not support SSL mode verify-full for clusters in YugabyteDB Aeon. Use verify-ca or the upstream psycopg2 driver. If your cluster is on YugabyteDB Aeon, use the cluster credentials for user and password, and [download the SSL Root certificate](../../../yugabyte-cloud/cloud-connect/connect-applications/).

### Step 3: Write your application

Create a new Python file called `QuickStartApp.py` in the base package directory of your project.

Copy the following sample code to set up tables and query the table contents. Replace the connection string `connString` with the cluster credentials and SSL certificate, if required.

```python
import psycopg2

# Create the database connection.

connString = "host=127.0.0.1 port=5433 dbname=yugabyte user=yugabyte password=yugabyte load_balance=True"

conn = psycopg2.connect(connString)

# Open a cursor to perform database operations.
# The default mode for psycopg2 is "autocommit=false".

conn.set_session(autocommit=True)
cur = conn.cursor()

# Create the table. (It might preexist.)

cur.execute(
  """
  DROP TABLE IF EXISTS employee
  """)

cur.execute(
  """
  CREATE TABLE employee (id int PRIMARY KEY,
                        name varchar,
                        age int,
                        language varchar)
  """)
print("Created table employee")
cur.close()

# Take advantage of ordinary, transactional behavior for DMLs.

conn.set_session(autocommit=False)
cur = conn.cursor()

# Insert a row.

cur.execute("INSERT INTO employee (id, name, age, language) VALUES (%s, %s, %s, %s)",
            (1, 'John', 35, 'Python'))
print("Inserted (id, name, age, language) = (1, 'John', 35, 'Python')")

# Query the row.

cur.execute("SELECT name, age, language FROM employee WHERE id = 1")
row = cur.fetchone()
print("Query returned: %s, %s, %s" % (row[0], row[1], row[2]))

# Commit and close down.

conn.commit()
cur.close()
conn.close()
```

## Run the application

Run the project `QuickStartApp.py` using the following command:

```python
python3 QuickStartApp.py
```

You should see output similar to the following:

```text
Created table employee
Inserted (id, name, age, language) = (1, 'John', 35, 'Python')
Query returned: John, 35, Python
```

If there is no output or you get an error, verify the parameters included in the connection string.

## Limitations

Currently, [PostgreSQL psycopg2 driver](https://github.com/psycopg/psycopg2) and [Yugabyte Psycopg2 smart driver](https://github.com/yugabyte/psycopg2) _cannot_ be used in the same environment.

## Learn more

- Refer to [YugabyteDB Psycopg2 driver reference](../../../reference/drivers/python/yugabyte-psycopg2-reference/) and [Try it out](../../../reference/drivers/python/yugabyte-psycopg2-reference/#try-it-out) for detailed smart driver examples.
- [YugabyteDB smart drivers for YSQL](../../smart-drivers/)
- Build Python applications using [PostgreSQL Psycopg2 smart driver](../postgres-psycopg2/)
- Build Python applications using [Django](../django/)
- Build Python applications using [SQLAlchemy](../sqlalchemy/)
