---
title: What's new in the v2.25 preview release series
headerTitle: What's new in the v2.25 preview release series
linkTitle: v2.25 series (Preview)
description: Enhancements, changes, and resolved issues in the v2.25 preview release series.
menu:
  preview_releases:
    identifier: v2.25
    parent: ybdb-releases
    weight: 2770
type: docs
---

What follows are the release notes for the YugabyteDB v2.25 release series. Content will be added as new notable features and changes are available in the patch releases of the YugabyteDB v2.25 release series.

For an RSS feed of all release series, point your feed reader to the [RSS feed for releases](../index.xml).

## v2.25.0.0 - January 17, 2025 {#v2.25.0.0}

**Build:** `2.25.0.0-b489`

### Downloads

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
  <li>
    <a href="https://software.yugabyte.com/releases/2.25.0.0/yugabyte-2.25.0.0-b489-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-apple"></i>
      <span>macOS</span>
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="https://software.yugabyte.com/releases/2.25.0.0/yugabyte-2.25.0.0-b489-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
      <span>Linux x86</span>
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="https://software.yugabyte.com/releases/2.25.0.0/yugabyte-2.25.0.0-b489-el8-aarch64.tar.gz">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
      <span>Linux ARM</span>
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

**Docker:**

```sh
docker pull yugabytedb/yugabyte:2.25.0.0-b489
```

### Highlights

We're excited to announce the Technical Preview of two foundational features as part of this release.

**PostgreSQL 15 Support** {{<tags/feature/tp>}}

As part of this release, we have upgraded our PostgreSQL fork from version 11.2 to 15.0, enabling you to leverage the many key capabilities introduced in PostgreSQL between these two versions. This upgrade brings YSQL API support for numerous features, including stored generated columns, foreign keys on partitioned tables, and non-distinct NULLs in unique indexes. It also introduces query execution optimizations like incremental sort and memoization, along with various observability and security enhancements.  For more information, refer to [PostgreSQL 15 features](../../../develop/pg15-features/).

**Query Diagnostics** {{<tags/feature/tp>}}

This feature significantly simplifies tuning poorly performing SQL queries by allowing you to capture and export detailed diagnostic information, including bind variables and constants, pg_stat_statements statistics, schema details, active session history, and execution plans. Refer to [Query diagnostics](../../../explore/query-1-performance/query-diagnostics/).

**Active session history**

In addition, the Active Session History, which provides real-time and historical views of system activity, is now enabled by default. For more information, refer to [Active Session History](../../../explore/observability/active-session-history/).

### Change log

<details>
  <summary>View the detailed changelog</summary>

### Improvements

#### YSQL

* Adds pg_hint_plan syntax and functionality to control batched nested loop joins, allows setting hints `YbBatchedNL(t1 t2)` and `NoYbBatchedNL`, and modifies `yb_prefer_bnl` handling. Also, it removes BNL's dependency on `enable_nestloop` and adjusts cost model. {{<issue 19494>}}
* Enables control over in-place index updates with `yb_enable_inplace_index_update`. {{<issue 20908>}}
* Added yb_make_next_ddl_statement_nonincrementing to YbDbAdminVariables for yb_db_admin role. {{<issue 23786>}}
* Allows use of `UNLOGGED` tables syntax, handling it as `LOGGED` with a warning. {{<issue 23895>}},{{<issue 23889>}}
* Adds `pg_yb_logical_client_version` table to manage session configurations. {{<issue 23871>}}
* Introduces a dedicated auth-backend for YSQL to handle connection authentication, enhancing security and streamlining the process. {{<issue 24147>}}
* Ensures correct error handling by adding a missing InvalidOid check in YSQL. {{<issue 24147>}}
* Enables authentication via a specialized backend, enhancing security and reliability. {{<issue 24147>}},{{<issue 24427>}}
* Enables toggling authentication method in YSQL using the `ysql_conn_mgr_use_auth_backend` flag. {{<issue 24147>}}
* Sets `yb_bnl_batch_size` to 1024 and `yb_prefer_bnl` to true by default, ensuring BNL's replace nested loop joins without altering non-NL join plans. {{<issue 19273>}}
* Allows preloading of foreign key lists in relcache, avoiding on-demand master fetches, controlled by `yb_enable_fkey_catcache`. {{<issue 23686>}}
* Adds notes on pinned objects and script backporting to the README. {{<issue 24334>}}
* Prevents catalog version bumps on no-op `ALTER ROLE` commands, saving system resources. {{<issue 24390>}}
* Enhances object creation efficiency by using static factory methods in `PgDML` classes. {{<issue 24412>}}
* Disables JIT in YB PG15 by default for stability. {{<issue 24479>}}
* Enables successful major version upgrades of functions containing semicolons. {{<issue 24571>}}
* Introduces `GetStatementAs<...>` to simplify `PgStatement*` casts. {{<issue 24754>}}
* Fixes style issues and lint errors in `ybcModifyTable.c`. {{<issue 24882>}}
* Simplifies `ybcSetupTargets` by using BMS only, enhancing target column handling. {{<issue 25007>}}
* Excludes third-party extensions from PostgreSQL linter checks. {{<issue 25054>}}
* Enables creation of indexes that are covered by the main table. {{<issue 24123>}}
* Enables ASH by default for better monitoring and diagnostics. {{<issue 24686>}}
* Restores performance hints in prepared statements to ensure consistent execution. {{<issue 24055>}}
* Updates YSQL upgrade tests for compatibility with pg15. {{<issue 24289>}}
* Simplifies descriptions for inherited PostgreSQL wait events. {{<issue 24972>}}
* Enables users to control YB query execution plans using `pg_hint_plan`. {{<issue 6720>}}
* Adds Oracle-like functions to YSQL with the Orafce extension. {{<issue 3460>}}

#### YCQL

* Resolves timestamp precision mismatches in YCQL, aligning inserts and index scans to millisecond precision. Enables users to optionally revert to microsecond precision using the flag `cql_revert_to_partial_microsecond_support=false`. {{<issue 11052>}},{{<issue 23476>}}
* Tracks microsecond precision timestamps in YCQL with new metric `cql_microseconds_timestamps_used`. This tracking occurs if the `cql_revert_to_partial_microsecond_support` flag is true. {{<issue 24776>}}

#### DocDB

* Allows reduction of thread stack size to avoid Linux hugepage backing. {{<issue 23927>}}
* Reduces unnecessary attribute map creations during Prometheus metric aggregation. {{<issue 24405>}}
* Enhances load balancer to prioritize under-replicated tablets first. {{<issue 20263>}}
* Limits concurrent remote bootstraps per TServer using `load_balancer_max_inbound_remote_bootstraps_per_tserver` flag. {{<issue 2426>}}
* Prevents overloading by correctly categorizing bootstrapping tablets in load balancing. {{<issue 23487>}}
* Upgrades non-FIPS OpenSSL to 3.0.15 and removes CentOS 7 builds. {{<issue 24436>}}
* Enhances RBS throttling by focusing on active fetch sessions and adjusts expiration logic. {{<issue 21563>}},{{<issue 24031>}}
* Enables persisting TServer registry entries to the sys catalog, enhancing failover recovery. {{<issue 22925>}}
* Initial implementation of Vector LSM supports multi-threaded batch inserts. {{<issue 24020>}}
* Updates and organizes third-party dependencies like `usearch` for better maintainability. {{<issue 23998>}}
* Simplifies HNSW library structure by using a factory-based approach. {{<issue 24085>}}
* Allows explicit addition of flags to `gflag_allowlist.txt` for secure callhome data collection, plus `version_info` in TServer data. {{<issue 24103>}}
* Enables xCluster to handle non-colocated ALTER TABLE commands without pausing replication. {{<issue 23951>}}
* Passes `automatic_ddl_mode` to xCluster pollers for enhanced replication handling. {{<issue 24091>}}
* Adds a metric to alert users when the master follower heartbeat delay is too high. {{<issue 21178>}}
* Removes the need to set `set_cdc_min_replicated_index` during xCluster bootstrap for improved log retention. {{<issue 24105>}}
* Enables SimSIMD in Usearch for enhanced search operations. {{<issue 23998>}}
* Reduces thread usage by removing CDC-specific `yb_client` from `PgClientServiceImpl`. {{<issue 24145>}}
* Adds a simple test to verify Vector LSM functionality during and post-insertions. {{<issue 24242>}}
* Adds a `yb-admin` command to remove non-active, blacklisted TServers. {{<issue 24044>}}
* Skips schema validation for newly added tables in xCluster replication to handle schema changes. {{<issue 23078>}}
* Standardizes log prefixes for retryable requests with tablet and peer IDs. {{<issue 19516>}}
* Adds a `yb-admin` command to remove tablet servers from the registry. {{<issue 24044>}}
* Enables persistent TServer registry updates via autoflag configuration. {{<issue 24045>}}
* Enables persistent storage for vector LSM via separate index chunk files and meta files. {{<issue 24371>}}
* Enhances Vector LSM handling to maintain data integrity after unexpected restarts. {{<issue 24466>}}
* Issues NOTICE when creating indexes in bi-directional xCluster to ensure concurrent execution. {{<issue 24362>}}
* Reduces Python virtual environment changes using `yugabyte-bash-common` for top-level management. {{<issue 19478>}}
* Renames the vector library to vector_index and updates the namespace accordingly. {{<issue 24636>}}
* Enables selecting compaction files at task start with `rocksdb_determine_compaction_input_at_start` flag. {{<issue 24541>}}
* Creates vector index tablets colocated with the indexed table for effective data retrieval. {{<issue 24696>}}
* Enables direct replication of specific DDL commands in xCluster. {{<issue 23953>}}
* Reverts a change that issued NOTICE on index creation in bi-directional xCluster setups. {{<issue 24362>}}
* Enables creation of Vector LSM for tablets with vector indices. {{<issue 24892>}}
* Reduces argument redundancy in PgsqlReadOperation executions. {{<issue 24855>}}
* Enables safe index creation on bidirectional xCluster tables without halting operations. {{<issue 24884>}}
* Replaces `ProducerSchemaPB` with `SchemaVersionsPB` for xCluster configurations. {{<issue 24901>}}
* Supports DDL replication for additional PostgreSQL objects including foreign tables and text search configurations. {{<issue 25051>}}
* Enables ALTER operations on colocated tables with active replication. {{<issue 24910>}}
* Adds packed row support for vector indexes during transaction apply. {{<issue 24912>}}
* Fetches intents DB for vector index queries to account for unapplied committed transactions. {{<issue 24947>}}
* Enables building with third party PR artifacts using specific GitHub IDs. {{<issue 25089>}}
* Enables vector indexes on colocated tables. {{<issue 24994>}}
* Allows vector index inserts to use a dedicated thread pool, enhancing overall system performance. {{<issue 25029>}}
* Replaces `vector_index::VertexId` with `StronglyTypedUuid` as `VectorId`. {{<issue 25038>}}
* Limits concurrent reads on usearch vector index to avoid exceptions. {{<issue 25069>}}
* Enables file determination at compaction start by default. {{<issue 25113>}}
* Enhances stability by fixing a missing null check in tablet lookup processes. {{<issue 25145>}}
* Removes deprecated vector index storage in RocksDB. {{<issue 24854>}}
* Removes outdated code to streamline heartbeat processing. {{<issue 24872>}}
* Simplifies load balancer's placement info management. {{<issue 25065>}}
* Updates lz4 library to fix a specific compression test failure. {{<issue 24965>}}
* Increases `RollbackYsqlMajorVersionUpgrade` RPC timeout to 3 minutes. {{<issue 24361>}}
* Adds race conditions in the odyssey library to the TSAN suppressions list. {{<issue 24735>}}
* Reduces data race when changing RocksDB options during auto-compactions. {{<issue 24238>}}
* Fixes deadlock issue by adjusting lock acquisition order in HierarchicalNSW. {{<issue 25017>}}
* Ensures tasks don't hang during shutdown by removing unnecessary checks. {{<issue 17898>}}
* Rejects alter table requests during table preparation to prevent state inconsistencies. {{<issue 25130>}}

#### CDC

* Enables asynchronous removal of user tables from CDC streams by adjusting how background threads process and persist stream metadata. {{<issue 23700>}}
* Adds a tag for the slot name attribute in the CDC metrics. {{<issue 24307>}}
* Enables tablet splitting on tables under CDCSDK stream by default using the GFLAG `enable_tablet_split_of_cdcsdk_streamed_tables`. {{<issue 24190>}}
* Avoids caching IntentDB block reads for CDC to prevent redundant data access. {{<issue 24909>}}
* Automatically removes metrics when a CDC stream is deleted. {{<issue 24876>}}
* Speeds up tablet bootstrap under CDC by skipping initial WAL segments, controlled by `skip_wal_replay_from_beginning_with_cdc` flag. {{<issue 24516>}}
* Enables `kNoCacheQueryId` to prevent crashes during RocksDB operations. {{<issue 24516>}}
* Speeds up tablet bootstrap under CDC by fixing WAL replay. {{<issue 24516>}}

#### yugabyted

* Enables better handling of complex YSQL configuration parameters using sticky connections. {{<issue 21637>}}
* Stops sending gflags details in the callhome diagnostics to eliminate redundant data. {{<issue 24029>}}
* Ensures the user interface accurately displays disk size, even when multiple data directories are used. {{<issue 23810>}}
* Ensures `join` flag in config files is properly validated to prevent node misconfiguration. {{<issue 23007>}}
* Updates column names in `pg_stat_statements` to fix slow queries page on yugabyted UI. {{<issue 25094>}}
* Enables `tserver_master_addresses` to update immediately in multi-node deployments using `Yb-ts-cli`. {{<issue 24659>}}
* Adds fully qualified names for non-table SQL objects in the UI. {{<issue 24330>}},{{<issue 24331>}}
* Lists manually refactorable objects by type in the YugabyteD UI. {{<issue 24329>}}

### Bug fixes

#### YSQL

* Introduces a per-database PG new OID allocator, ensuring OID uniqueness within the database and enhancing horizontal scalability in multi-node and multi-tenancy environments. This new mechanism mitigates OID collisions and allows OID consistency in backup-restore scenarios across clusters. A new GFlag `ysql_enable_pg_per_database_oid_allocator` is provided to return to old OID allocator behavior if necessary. {{<issue 16130>}}
* Resets `current_hint_retrieved` after query execution to ensure consistent hint parsing. {{<issue 12741>}}
* Modifies backup/restore process to skip column name checks for indexes, allowing for successful restoration even with renamed columns. {{<issue 24207>}}
* Enables `ALTER SEQUENCE` commands to change sequence name, schema, and owner without errors. {{<issue 17271>}}
* Enhances PostgreSQL restart stability by refining shutdown handling and lock file management.  Includes killing only Postgres-associated PIDs, using `SIGQUIT` for immediate shutdowns to reduce hang-ups, and monitoring for stuck processes on macOS {{<issue 24396>}}
* Fixes crashes caused by using a RowComparisonExpression on a reordered primary key index. {{<issue 23824>}}
* Disables in-place index updates by default to address index inconsistency issues. {{<issue 24672>}}
* Increases YSQL connection manager's thread stack size to 512 KB to prevent crashes on Alma 9 machines. {{<issue 24979>}}
* Enhances read performance on colocated tables by skipping redundant tombstone checks. {{<issue 21561>}}
* Fixes flag overlap to differentiate `sticky` settings from `explain` in configurations. {{<issue 24954>}}
* Renames `pipe` type to `orafce_pipe` to resolve naming conflicts. {{<issue 12990>}}
* Eliminates unnecessary file creation for views on temporary tables by checking if storage is actually needed. {{<issue 19522>}}
* Reduces maintenance time by switching to a less complex implementation of SideBySideDiff.java, thereby eliminating errors from `SideBySideDiff.sanityCheckLinesMatch`. {{<issue 19690>}}
* Prevents segmentation faults in parallel index scans with aggregate pushdown. {{<issue 21427>}}
* Increases performance by batching index reads during `INSERT ON CONFLICT`, with customizable batch sizes using `yb_insert_on_conflict_read_batch_size`. {{<issue 24179>}}
* Improves cache re-invalidation for `ALTER TABLE` commands to avoid schema version mismatch errors in the same session. {{<issue 23882>}}
* Fixes UPDATE errors on partitioned tables by correctly mapping column numbers. {{<issue 23857>}}
* Ensures restart read time does not exceed the global limit to avoid inconsistent reads. {{<issue 24017>}}
* Fixes the flaw in the current DDL atomicity workflow where only the first table's schema was compared, even if it doesn't change after a schema version increment. {{<issue 23988>}}
* Streamlines `ysql_dump` process by eliminating faulty statements for colocated table unique constraint, enhancing database reliability. {{<issue 24057>}}
* Introduces batching for the `INSERT ON CONFLICT` command to enhance performance by minimizing alternating read and write operations. Control the batch size with the new YSQL configuration parameter `yb_insert_on_conflict_read_batch_size`, which, when default at `1`, disables batching. {{<issue 24179>}}
* Enhances index relation checks with `YBIsCoveredByMainTable` method. {{<issue 24239>}}
* Alters encoding setup order to ensure `UTF8` use instead of `SQL_ASCII` and adds `pg_collation` to pre-loaded tables to prevent specific errors. {{<issue 24149>}}
* Disables LZ4 build option to prevent PostgreSQL build failures. {{<issue 24286>}}
* Fixes crashes in creating tables with over 585 columns. {{<issue 24304>}}
* Adds support for `ALTER TABLE VALIDATE CONSTRAINT` in YugabyteDB. {{<issue 24291>}}
* Prevent incorrect loading of pg_collation catalog caches, eliminating associated performance issues. {{<issue 24149>}}
* Fixes out-of-bound memory access during index scan cost estimation ensuring stable query execution on system catalogs and expression-based indexes when using the `yb_enable_base_scans_cost_model` configuration {{<issue 24246>}}
* Blocks `REINDEX` and `TRUNCATE` on system tables using table rewrite. {{<issue 24356>}}
* Blocks the "NULLS NOT DISTINCT" command until supported. {{<issue 24452>}}
* Enhances consistency and correctness of INSERT...ON CONFLICT queries via YBCTID infrastructure integration and index management. {{<issue 24692>}},{{<issue 24784>}}
* Assumes indexes contain 1000 rows when statistics are unavailable, ensuring better query planning. {{<issue 24496>}}
* Enhances performance during nested loop joins by ensuring correct limit resets in colocated index scans. {{<issue 24560>}}
* Removes time sync service requirement from the prerequisites. {{<issue 24758>}}
* Enhances UPDATE query execution on generated columns by including them in `updatedCols` calculations. {{<issue 24641>}}
* Fixes foreign key checks to avoid errors with unique indexes. {{<issue 24663>}}
* Ensures accurate catalog version tracking during concurrent index creation. {{<issue 24775>}}
* Ensures YB master reads from valid catalog tables during upgrades. {{<issue 24647>}}
* Re-enables in-place index updates by default after fixing related inconsistencies. {{<issue 24849>}}
* Prevents DML operations on sequence data during upgrades. {{<issue 24943>}}
* Fixes `ysql_dump` crashes related to `pg_catalog` schema dumps. {{<issue 24907>}}
* Accurately estimates the cost of partial index scans by including index conditions. {{<issue 24916>}}
* Reduces memory usage spikes by using a new memory context for `RelationBuildTriggers`. {{<issue 24951>}}
* Adds debugging logs to track new OIDs for resolving table OID collisions. {{<issue 24320>}}
* Ensures successful cache invalidation after a failed ALTER TABLE to prevent "schema mismatch" errors. {{<issue 24981>}}
* Disables index update optimization by default to fix `ON CONFLICT UPDATE` issues. {{<issue 25075>}}
* Reverts changes related to `yb_amiscoveredbymaintable` for updated index co-partitioning design. {{<issue 25119>}}

#### YCQL

* Allows users to control error suppression for `GROUP BY` in YCQL using `ycql_ignore_group_by_error` flag. {{<issue 25030>}}
* Eliminates unexpected error during shell type definition update across multiple sessions. {{<issue 24217>}}

#### DocDB

* Allows the packed row size to exceed its limit during repacking, preventing TServer crash after `alter table add column` commands with a default value. {{<issue 24050>}}
* Prevents server crashes during table truncation by safely shutting down iterators before releasing locks. {{<issue 23243>}}
* Prevents resource waste by checking disk space before remote bootstrap operations. {{<issue 23987>}}
* TServers now reject remote bootstrap requests for previously deleted tablets. {{<issue 24574>}}
* Sets a default 10MB max size for RocksDB MANIFEST files, now configurable via flags. {{<issue 11117>}}
* Adds mtime and checksum to block cache key prefix to prevent conflicts. {{<issue 20852>}}
* Enhances visibility for unexpected rate limiter sleep times in RBS threads. {{<issue 24342>}}
* Eliminates inconsistencies by not including inactive tablets in `OpenTable` operations. {{<issue 24860>}}
* Adds a null check to prevent a system crash when cleaning up a recently applied transaction state after a flush operation. {{<issue 24026>}}
* Prevents crashes during compaction when `ysql_enable_packed_row` is off and existing packed rows are present. {{<issue 24545>}}
* Updates YSQL migration script to align with PostgreSQL 15 catalog changes. {{<issue 24593>}}
* Switches pg_cron back to using standard `SIGTERM` handling for cleaner shutdowns. {{<issue 24658>}}
* Ensures tablets remain effectively managed during transition from RF1 to higher replication factors. {{<issue 24575>}}
* Ensures consistent tablegroup assignments for colocated table backups without using explicit tablespaces. {{<issue 24809>}}
* Fixes error for select queries in large tables by adjusting backward scan bounds. {{<issue 24824>}}
* Eliminates segmentation faults by ensuring `CleanupHiddenTables` holds a write lock during `Upsert`. {{<issue 24929>}}
* Prevents fatal errors during multiple splits and PITR restores. {{<issue 25103>}}
* Ensures "create table" requests for colocated tables don't fail due to mistaken tablet limit checks. {{<issue 23922>}}
* Reduces unnecessary checks when adding tables in alter replication requests. {{<issue 24164>}}
* Enhances stability by replacing raw pointers with `std::weak_ptr` in tablet server handling. {{<issue 24182>}}
* Enhances index parameter consistency between Usearch and Hnswlib for balanced performance. {{<issue 24465>}}
* Ensures correct metadata sequencing for vector index chunks, preventing data inconsistencies. {{<issue 24511>}}
* Speeds up vector LSM loading by using a thread pool. {{<issue 24588>}}
* Adds a flag to limit multiple pending compactions for priority pools. {{<issue 24540>}}
* Enables merging of small vector index chunks to enhance search efficiency. {{<issue 24069>}}
* Resolves scheduling of contentious waiters to the correct, larger RPC thread pool. {{<issue 24478>}}
* Fixes shutdown path issues to prevent fatal errors during RPC completion. {{<issue 24524>}}
* Ensures `pg_txn_start_us` is set for restarted transactions, fixing priority issues in waiter resumption. {{<issue 24778>}}
* Fixes mini cluster restarts to ensure master leaders track all TServer re-connections. {{<issue 24772>}}
* Reduces latency by enhancing early resume of RPCs blocked on aborted transactions. {{<issue 24799>}}
* Fixes memory leak in MasterPathHandlers by properly managing shared pointers. {{<issue 24823>}}
* Ensures callback triggers after loading tablet server data if the count meets requirements. {{<issue 23744>}}
* Ensures consistent reads by verifying restart conditions before reporting false corruption. {{<issue 25072>}}

#### CDC

* Allows sending a null "before image" for CDC if `cdc_send_null_before_image_if_not_exists` flag is true. {{<issue 18381>}}
* Enhances accuracy of transaction start time logging for better consistency in CDC. {{<issue 24521>}}
* Fixes memory leaks in the walsender's handling of transactions and file nodes. {{<issue 24788>}}
* Fixes memory leaks in the walsender's handling of transactions and file nodes. {{<issue 24788>}}
* Ensures null values are now correctly captured in CDC before image records. {{<issue 22983>}}
* Enables removal of dropped tables from the replica identity map to prevent replication errors. {{<issue 24308>}}
* Excludes expired or irrelevant entries from metrics calculations for more accurate reporting. {{<issue 24975>}}

#### yugabyted

* Nodes now start using private IP as `advertise_address` instead of hostname. {{<issue 25037>}}

</details>
