---
title: What's new in the YugabyteDB v2024.1 STS release series
headerTitle: What's new in the YugabyteDB v2024.1 STS release series
linkTitle: v2024.1 series (STS)
description: Enhancements, changes, and resolved issues in the YugabyteDB v2024.1 STS release series recommended for production deployments.
menu:
 preview_releases:
   identifier: v2024.1
   parent: ybdb-releases
   weight: 2811
rightNav:
 hideH4: true
type: docs
---

What follows are the release notes for the YugabyteDB 2024.1 release series. Content will be added as new notable features and changes are available in the patch releases of the YugabyteDB 2024.1 release series.

For an RSS feed of all release series, point your feed reader to the [RSS feed for releases](../../index.xml).

{{<warning title="Changes to supported operating systems">}}
YugabyteDB 2024.1.0.0 and newer releases do not support v7 Linux versions (CentOS7, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7, Oracle Enterprise Linux 7.x), Amazon Linux 2, and Ubuntu 18. If you're currently using one of these Linux versions, upgrade to a supported OS version before installing YugabyteDB v2024.1.0. Refer to [Operating system support](/stable/reference/configuration/operating-systems/) for the complete list of supported operating systems.
{{</warning>}}

{{< tip title="New memory division settings available" >}}

YugabyteDB uses [memory division flags](/stable/reference/configuration/yb-master/#memory-division-flags) to specify how memory should be divided between different processes (for example, [YB-TServer](/stable/architecture/yb-tserver/) versus [YB-Master](/stable/architecture/yb-master/)) on a YugabyteDB node as well as within processes. Using these flags, you can better allocate memory for PostgreSQL, making it more suitable for a wider range of use cases.

For _new_ v2024.1.x universes, if you are expecting to use any nontrivial amount of [YSQL](/stable/api/ysql/), it is strongly recommended to set [ &#8209;&#8209;use_memory_defaults_optimized_for_ysql](/stable/reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#use-memory-defaults-optimized-for-ysql). This changes the memory division defaults to better values for YSQL usage, and optimizes memory for the node size.

If you are _upgrading_ a universe, you may want to instead review your memory division settings and adjust them if desired; see [best practices](/stable/develop/best-practices-ysql/#minimize-the-number-of-tablets-you-need).

In future releases, the memory division settings will be used to determine how many tablet replicas a YB-TServer can safely support; this information will power new alerts warning you about overloading nodes with too many tablet replicas and allow blocking operations that would create too many tablet replicas.

{{< /tip >}}

## v2024.1.1.0 - July 12, 2024 {#v2024.1.1.0}

**Build:** `2024.1.1.0-b129`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.1.0/yugabytedb-2024.1.1.0-b129-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.1.0/yugabytedb-anywhere-2024.1.1.0-b129-third-party-licenses.html)

### Downloads

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
  <li>
    <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.1.0/yugabyte-2024.1.1.0-b129-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-apple"></i>
      <span>macOS</span>
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.1.0/yugabyte-2024.1.1.0-b129-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
      <span>Linux x86</span>
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.1.0/yugabyte-2024.1.1.0-b129-el8-aarch64.tar.gz">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
      <span>Linux ARM</span>
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

**Docker:**

```sh
docker pull yugabytedb/yugabyte:2024.1.1.0-b129
```

### New features

- PG syntax for CDC. Added Support for PG-Compatible Logical Replication with Publication and Replication Slot API. <!-- IDEA-805 -->

- Automate building and publishing 'SQL/CQL Shell Binary' as part of release process. Along with Full Binary, added separate downloadable SQL/CQL Shell Binary. <!-- IDEA-1526 -->

- Voyager assessment visualisation in yugabyted UI. Yugabyted UI provides a dashboard to allow the users to effectively plan the migrations based on the complexity and also be able to monitor the progress of each migration <!-- IDEA-1075 --> {{<badge/tp idea="IDEA-1075">}}

### Change log

<details>
  <summary>View the detailed changelog</summary>

### Improvements

#### YSQL

* Eradicates misleading log message during table creation with DDL atomicity enabled. {{<issue 22459>}}
* Removes the unused `keep_order` field from `YbctidGenerator` for cleaner results processing. {{<issue 21944>}}
* Updates read time for each operation to simplify code and avoid applying used read time from obsolete operations. {{<issue 21623>}}
* Enhances logging for DDL atomicity and corrects a loop index in cross-db unit test for clearer test logs. {{<issue 22736>}}

#### DocDB

* Offers a new stack trace tracking framework for improved visibility of disk I/O operations, configurable through the `track_stack_traces` gflag. {{<issue 17993>}}
* Introduces utility to dump top heap stacks when memory limit is exceeded for enhanced debugging. {{<issue 21396>}}
* Adds `SCHECK_PB_FIELDS_NOT_EMPTY` macro for validating non-empty fields, with individual checks on list elements. {{<issue 22182>}}
* Disables the unused and unreliable NamespaceReplication tests temporarily for seamless operation. {{<issue 22457>}}
* Eliminates potential deadlock issue in DeleteOrHideTabletsAndSendRequests by removing unnecessary shared lock, and introduces a test for bug 22608. {{<issue 22618>}}
* Refreshes stack trace tracking UI endpoints to enable per-column sorting and optimize sorting script. {{<issue 22841>}}
* Introduces two new `SOURCE_UNREACHABLE` and `SYSTEM_ERROR` enums to enable more detailed error reporting from the Poller. {{<issue 22996>}}
* Refreshes stack trace tracking UI endpoints to enable per-column sorting and optimize sorting script. {{<issue 22841>}}
* Introduces two new `SOURCE_UNREACHABLE` and `SYSTEM_ERROR` enums to enable more detailed error reporting from the Poller. {{<issue 22996>}}
* Shifts tcmalloc profiling code to the Utils folder. {{<issue 22258>}}
* Enhances visibility of the `Hidden` state in Master/Tserver Tables UI by shifting its position more prominently to the `State` column. {{<issue 22521>}}

#### CDC

* Prevents addition of tables with enum array column to the CDC stream to avoid crashes during consumption. {{<issue 22897>}}
* Transforms the flag `yb_enable_cdc_consistent_snapshot_streams` from a preview into a default true auto flag. {{<issue 22984>}}
* Introduces three new yb-admin commands to remove a user table from a CDCSDK stream, descend dynamic table addition in a CDC stream, and validate CDC state for a particular stream, enhancing control over CDC streams. {{<issue 22876>}},{{<issue 22773>}}
* Adds a tserver flag, `ysql_yb_default_replica_identity`, for customizing default replica identity at table creation. {{<issue 22326>}}
* Introduces `cdcsdk_enable_dynamic_table_addition` flag to manage dynamic table additions in replication slot consumption model. {{<issue 22406>}}
* Introduces replication slot name for internal distinction between two consumption models in the code. {{<issue 22810>}}
* Allows creating an old model stream via yb-admin in upgraded environments, ensuring only one stream type per database. {{<issue 22894>}}
* Eliminates unnecessary NOTICE messages when setting yb_read_time from walsender, reducing message clutter. {{<issue 22379>}}

#### yugabyted

* Allows to specify multiple data directories using the new `additional_data_dir` configuration. {{<issue 22126>}}

### Bug fixes

#### YSQL

* Fixes an error that occurs when decoding null values from a boolean column sorted as NULLS LAST in a secondary index. {{<issue 22121>}}
* Fixes YSQL upgrade single connection mode error preventing new connection attempts before the old ones are released. {{<issue 22283>}}
* Fixes memory leaks in pg_constraint/pg_attrdef local cache by adding a missing `hash_destroy` call in `YbCleanupTupleCache`. {{<issue 22262>}}
* Fixes a memory leak in catalog cache refresh during upgrade that led to higher memory consumption. {{<issue 22262>}}
* Resolves remaining memory leaks in CacheMemoryContext to stabilize cache memory after every catalog cache refresh. {{<issue 22262>}}
* Stops Batched Nest Loop (BNL) crashes by ensuring better indexing condition checks. {{<issue 21954>}}
* Refines the logic to accurately push down join clauses to batched index scans without causing conflicts. {{<issue 21878>}}
* Reenables rechecking for RowCompareExpressions to accurately handle NULL inputs in scan bound calculations. {{<issue 22075>}}
* Grants BNL hashtable its own expression context to prevent data overwrites during query execution. {{<issue 21266>}}
* Allows for an enhanced readability and performance of yb_cost_index code, aiding in merging with the pg15 branch. {{<issue 21672>}}
* Fixes a bug in the index tuple width calculation for better YB base scans cost model. {{<issue 21892>}}
* Makes `yb_get_range_split_clause` robust using PG TRY CATCH block, ensuring YB backup doesn't fail. {{<issue 22356>}}
* Prevents coredumps by ensuring YSQL webserver destruction upon receiving a termination signal. {{<issue 18948>}}
* Reduces test iterations of `PgCatalogVersionTest.SqlCrossDBLoadWithDDL` in tsan/asan build to prevent timeouts. {{<issue 22475>}}
* Fixes memory leaks in ybcFetchNextHeapTuple by properly freeing the YBCStatus. {{<issue 22396>}}
* Replaces `TRUNCATE` with `DELETE FROM` in TestPgTransparentRestarts, enhancing its stability and reducing flakiness. {{<issue 22522>}}
* Allows `CreateNamespaceIfNotExists` function to retry on "already exists" error, preventing race conditions. {{<issue 22512>}}
* Removes the unused function `Catalocustomeranager::WaitForDdlVerificationToFinish` for clarity. {{<issue 22649>}}
* Resolves potential database OID collision with `system_postgres` by excluding reserved OID 65535 in allocation. {{<issue 22598>}}
* Prevents the `IN` expressions on single column from wrongly taking the tuple path, ensuring correct data processing. {{<issue 22704>}}
* Ensures bitmap scans correctly recheck all results and avoid excluding rows, improving accuracy of outcomes. {{<issue 22622>}}
* Fixes incorrect access to the scan plan's bind descriptor during tuple IN condition rechecks. {{<issue 22800>}}
* Allows the creation of new shared relations during YSQL upgrade to have a global impact by incrementing the catalog version across every database. {{<issue 22830>}}
* Corrects the YbGetOrdinaryColumnsNeedingPgRecheck function to return table column numbers instead of index numbers, preventing unnecessary data fetches and potential crashes or errors after dropping a column. {{<issue 22832>}}
* Fixes the issue when a separately created and later attached partition does not properly inherit the parent's primary key using `ALTER TABLE ...ATTACH PARTITION`. {{<issue 22562>}}
* Now allows for correct backward prefix-based scanning by eliminating the problematic `kGroupEnd` marker that was leading to inaccurate seek results. {{<issue 22615>}}
* Reduces unexpected log messages by not invoking `YsqlDdlTxnCompleteCallback` if all table 'pb_txn_id's in the DDL transaction verifier state are already cleared, avoiding potential deadlock situations in DDL atomicity. {{<issue 22882>}}
* Reduces sequence cache collision by incorporating both database and sequence OIDs as the entry key. {{<issue 22935>}}
* Resolves a detected deadlock during ALTER TABLE operations, enhancing test stability. {{<issue 22882>}}
* Prevents a crash related to memory release associated with TupleTableSlots in SubPlans during a Values Scan. {{<issue 22967>}}
* Eliminates the occurrence of "schema version mismatch" error following a DROP INDEX statement by introducing a delay in index deletion. {{<issue 22637>}}

#### DocDB

* Eliminates possible deadlock during setup replication by fixing the order in which locks are acquired. {{<issue 22376>}}
* Removes unnecessary flush during snapshot deletion, preventing write blocks. {{<issue 22369>}}
* Resolves a heartbeat metrics issue ensuring full xCluster error information is sent to the new master even during a leader failover, and makes `tserver_heartbeat_metrics_interval_ms` runtime updatable. {{<issue 22624>}}
* Converted the `ysql_skip_row_lock_for_update` to an auto-flag to resolve compatibility issues during upgrade, preventing incorrect DB record creations that can affect row visibility and integrity. {{<issue 22057>}}
* Prevents duplicate entries in the sequence data filter used by Snapshot schedules, ensuring successful operations. {{<issue 22663>}}
* Resolves the issue of `pg_locks` query failure due to missing host node UUID in distributed transactions. {{<issue 22181>}}
* Clarifies memory division flags to reflect they are percentage of the process's hard memory limit, not total available memory. {{<issue 22423>}}
* Eliminates latency spikes in conflicting workloads by preventing redundant ProbeTransactionDeadlock rpcs. {{<issue 22426>}}
* Prevents premature metric destruction during Prometheus scrapes, resolving non-UTF8 character issues. {{<issue 22767>}}
* Ensures failed xCluster setup if the xcluster stream state update to `ACTIVE` does not occur. {{<issue 22601>}}

#### CDC

* Ensures deletion of MemoryContext after each GetChanges RPC to prevent memory leaks. {{<issue 22328>}}
* Prevents newly created indexes, materialized views, and non-user tables from being added to the Chang Data Capture (CDC) stream metadata. {{<issue 22808>}}
* Reduces resource usage by removing non-eligible tables, like indexes, from existing CDC SDK stream metadata, and releasing retention barriers. This change requires the master flag `enable_cleanup_of_non_eligible_tables_from_cdcsdk_stream` and limits processing to two non-eligible tables per namespace per run with `cdcsdk_table_processing_limit_per_run`. Introduces three yb-admin commands for managing CDC streams. {{<issue 22876>}},{{<issue 22835>}},{{<issue 22773>}}
* Fixes the issue of getting either `0` or a random time as the server's system clock in XLogData from the logical replication stream. {{<issue 22929>}}
* Fixes the segmentation fault in walsender for dynamic table addition by refreshing stored replica identities and preventing a race condition when creating dynamic tables. {{<issue 22273>}}
* Solves an issue where CDCSDK incorrectly deduces tablets as not interesting for stream before reaching the configured time limit. {{<issue 22383>}}
* Refines the logic to remove `BEGIN` record when no DML records are added, preventing potential virtual WAL crashes. {{<issue 21646>}}
* Addresses a race condition in dynamic table creation, enhancing stability during table and tablet initialization. {{<issue 22408>}}
* Increases timeout for deletion of slot entry from the state table to correct test failures in TSAN builds. {{<issue 22560>}}
* Resolves "could not open relation" error by updating slot creation method and simplifying yb_read_time logic. {{<issue 22398>}}

#### yugabyted

* Eliminates inconsistent failures in TestSessionParameters.java by resetting roles to default instead of dropping them. {{<issue 21523>}}

</details>

## v2024.1.0.0 - June 4, 2024 {#v2024.1.0.0}

**Build:** `2024.1.0.0-b129`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.0.0/yugabytedb-2024.1.0.0-b129-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.0.0/yugabytedb-anywhere-2024.1.0.0-b129-third-party-licenses.html)

### Downloads

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
  <li>
    <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.0.0/yugabyte-2024.1.0.0-b129-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-apple"></i>
      <span>macOS</span>
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.0.0/yugabyte-2024.1.0.0-b129-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
      <span>Linux x86</span>
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.1.0.0/yugabyte-2024.1.0.0-b129-el8-aarch64.tar.gz">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
      <span>Linux ARM</span>
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

**Docker:**

```sh
docker pull yugabytedb/yugabyte:2024.1.0.0-b129
```

### Highlights

**Enhanced Postgres Compatibility Mode** {{<badge/ea>}}

We're pleased to announce the early access of the new Enhanced Postgres Compatibility Mode in the 2024.1.0.0 release. This mode enables you to take advantage of many new improvements in both PostgreSQL compatibility and performance parity, making it even easier to lift and shift your applications from PostgreSQL to YugabyteDB. When this mode is turned on, YugabyteDB uses the [Read-Committed](/stable/architecture/transactions/read-committed/) isolation mode, the [Wait-on-Conflict](/stable/architecture/transactions/concurrency-control/#wait-on-conflict) concurrency mode for predictable P99 latencies, and the new Cost Based Optimizer {{<badge/ea>}} that takes advantage of the distributed storage layer architecture and includes query pushdowns, LSM indexes, and [batched nested loop joins](/stable/explore/ysql-language-features/join-strategies/#batched-nested-loop-join-bnl) to offer PostgreSQL-like performance.

You can enable the compatibility mode by passing the `enable_pg_parity_early_access` flag to [yugabyted](/stable/reference/configuration/yugabyted/#yugabyted) when bringing up your cluster.

For example, from your YugabyteDB home directory, run the following command:

```sh
./bin/yugabyted start --enable_pg_parity_early_access
```

Note: When enabling the cost models, ensure that packed row for colocated tables is enabled by setting the `--ysql_enable_packed_row_for_colocated_table` flag to true.

**Rollback after upgrade**

Rolling back to the pre-upgrade version if you're not satisfied with the upgraded version is now {{<badge/ga>}}. Refer to the [Rollback phase](/stable/manage/upgrade-deployment/#b-rollback-phase) for more information.

### New features

- [yugabyted](/stable/reference/configuration/yugabyted/)
  - Set preferred regions. The preferred region handles all read and write requests from clients. Use the [yugabyted configure data_placement](/stable/reference/configuration/yugabyted/#data-placement) command to specify preferred regions for clusters.
  - Connection management integration. With connection management enabled, the **Nodes** page of yugabyted UI displays the split of physical and logical connections.
  - [Docker-based deployments](/stable/reference/configuration/yugabyted/#create-a-multi-region-cluster-in-docker). Improves the yugabyted Docker user experience for RF-3 deployments and docker container/host restarts.
  - Simplified [PITR configuration](/stable/reference/configuration/yugabyted/#restore).
  - Perform all admin operations using a [pass through mechanism](/stable/reference/configuration/yugabyted/#admin-operation) to execute yb-admin commands.

- DocDB Availability
  - Speed up local bootstrap. Faster rolling upgrades and restarts by minimizing table bootstrap time.
  - Hardening Raft. Reduced time window for re-tryable requests by honoring write RPC timeouts.

- [Batched nested loop joins](/stable/explore/ysql-language-features/join-strategies/#batched-nested-loop-join-bnl). A join execution strategy that is an improvement on Nested Loop joins that sends one request to the inner table per batch of outer table tuples instead of once per individual outer table tuple.

- [Tablet splitting on range-sharded tables](/stable/architecture/docdb-sharding/tablet-splitting/#range-sharded-tables). Optimized the tablet split thresholds to speed up data ingestion.

- [Catalog Caching](/stable/reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#catalog-flags). Reduce master requests during PostgreSQL system catalog refresh by populating YB-TServer catalog cache. {{<badge/ea>}}

- [Catalog Caching](/stable/reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#ysql-yb-toast-catcache-threshold). Use TOAST compression to reduce PG catalog cache memory. Compressed catalog tuples when storing in the PG catalog cache to reduce the memory consumption. {{<badge/ea>}}

- [Index backfill](/stable/explore/ysql-language-features/indexes-constraints/index-backfill/) stability improvements. Ensure timely notification to all nodes and PostgreSQL backends before initiating index backfill to prevent missing entries during index creation.

- Support for CDC with atomic DDL. In case of DDL being rolled back, CDC will not send records with rolled back schema.

- [Wait-On Conflict Concurrency Control](/stable/architecture/transactions/concurrency-control/#wait-on-conflict). Cross-tablet fairness in resuming "waiters". Resume waiters in a consistent order across tablets, when a set of transactions simultaneously wait on more than one intent/lock on various tablets.

- YSQL
  - [Cost-based optimizer](/stable/reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#yb-enable-base-scans-cost-model). Added support for cost based optimizer for YSQL. {{<badge/ea>}}
  - [DDL concurrency](/stable/reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#ddl-concurrency-flags). Support for isolating DDLs per database. Specifically, a DDL in one database does not cause catalog cache refreshes or aborts transactions due to breaking change in another database.
  - [DDL atomicity](/stable/reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#ddl-atomicity-flags). Ensures that YSQL DDLs are fully atomic between YSQL and DocDB layers, that is in case of any errors, they are fully rolled back, and in case of success they are applied fully. Currently, such inconsistencies are rare but can happen.
  - [ALTER TABLE support](/stable/api/ysql/the-sql-language/statements/ddl_alter_table/#add-column-if-not-exists-column-name-data-type-constraint-constraints). Adds support for the following variants of ALTER TABLE ADD COLUMN:
    - with a SERIAL data type
    - with a volatile DEFAULT
    - with a PRIMARY KEY
  - [Lower latency for large scans with size-based fetching](/stable/reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#ysql-yb-fetch-size-limit). A static size based fetch limit value to control how many rows can be returned in one request from DocDB. {{<badge/ea>}}

- [Tablet limits](/stable/architecture/docdb-sharding/tablet-splitting/#tablet-limits). Depending on the available nodes and resources such as memory and CPU, YugabyteDB can automatically limit the total number of tables that can be created to ensure that the system can be stable and performant.

- Truncate support with [PITR](/stable/manage/backup-restore/point-in-time-recovery/). The TRUNCATE command is now allowed for databases with PITR enabled.

- DocDB memory tracking enhancements. Memory tracking in DocDB to account for 90% of memory used.

- [Enhanced Explain Analyze output](/stable/explore/query-1-performance/explain-analyze/). Explain Analyze when used with DIST option will also show the rows read from the storage layer, which can help diagnosing the query performance.

- Upgrade OpenSSL to 3.0.8 from 1.1.1. OpenSSL 1.1.1 is out of support. This feature upgrades YugabyteDB to FIPS compliant OpenSSL version 3.0.8.

### Change log

<details>
  <summary>View the detailed changelog</summary>

### Improvements

#### YSQL

* Enhances logging for DDL transaction conflicts and PG catalog version mismatches by including the DDL command tag and specific log details outside of the `log_ysql_catalog_versions` gflag. {{<issue 20084>}}
* Displays distinct prefix keys explicitly in the explain output, enhancing the clarity of indexing for users. {{<issue 20831>}}
* Adds auto gflag `ysql_yb_enable_ddl_atomicity_infra` to control DDL atomicity feature during the upgrade phase. {{<issue 21535>}}
* Allows YbInitPinnedCacheIfNeeded to only load the shared pinned cache, enhancing concurrent handling of DDLs in various databases. {{<issue 21635>}}
* Now logs global-impact DDL statements that increment all database catalog versions. {{<issue 21826>}}
* Adds a new YSQL view for YCQL statement metrics, allowing it to be joined with YCQL wait events in the `yb_active_universe_history` table. {{<issue 20616>}}
* Reduces per-backend memory consumption by reinstating TOAST compression for catalogue tables. {{<issue 21040>}}
* Avoids schema version mismatch errors during ALTER TABLE operations in cases where DDL atomicity is enabled. {{<issue 21787>}}
* Resolves schema version mismatch errors that occur after an ALTER TABLE operation due to DDL transaction verification in non-debug builds. {{<issue 21787>}}
* Introduces a new YSQL configuration parameter `yb_enable_parallel_append` to disable the unannounced feature `parallel append`. {{<issue 21934>}}
* Adds new columns to localhost:13000/statements for more comprehensive database management, including user and database IDs along with varied block level statistics. {{<issue 21735>}}
* Enables DDL atomicity feature by default by altering `ysql_yb_ddl_rollback_enabled`, `report_ysql_ddl_txn_status_to_master`, and `ysql_ddl_transaction_wait_for_ddl_verification` flags' defaults. {{<issue 22097>}}

#### YCQL

* Now throws an error when using the unsupported GROUP BY clause in YCQL with autoflag `ycql_suppress_group_by_error` available for compatibility issues. {{<issue 13956>}}

#### DocDB

* Introduces a new gflag to toggle on or off recommended memory defaults for increased control over individual memory settings. {{<issue 22161>}}
* Boosts error messaging clarity when preview flags are not set in `allowed_preview_flags_csv`. {{<issue 21484>}}
* Shifts xCluster-related functions from `Catalocustomeranager` to `XClusterSourceManager` for easier management. {{<issue 21325>}}
* Adjusts TServer memory percentage from 50% to 48% for (4,8]GiB boxes and sets new recommendations for boxes over 16 GiB. {{<issue 20664>}}
* Returns the original error messages from CreateTable and CreateTablegroup instead of an incorrect "Database not found" message. {{<issue 21760>}}
* Updates `AreNodesSafeToTakeDown` to return earlier and deliver a readable error message when hitting a timeout, using a control flag, `are_nodes_safe_to_take_down_timeout_buffer_ms` with a default setting of 2 seconds. {{<issue 21855>}}
* Allows for faster failover in xCluster DR by skipping the cleanup process when `skip_producer_stream_deletion` is set on `DeleteUniverseReplicationRequestPB`. Safe for upgrades and rollbacks. {{<issue 22050>}}
* Adds a flag `FLAGS_tablet_split_min_size_ratio` to control tablet splitting based on SST file sizes, ensuring better control over tablet size imbalance. {{<issue 21458>}}

#### CDC

* Preserves CDC stream even when all associated tables are dropped, tying its lifecycle to the database. {{<issue 21419>}}
* Allows modification of the publication refresh interval using the `cdcsdk_publication_list_refresh_interval_secs` flag. {{<issue 21796>}}
* Introduces replica identity in CDC to populate before image records, allowing table-level before image information fetching and retaining in stream metadata. {{<issue 21314>}}
* Eliminates unnecessary NOTICE messages when setting yb_read_time from walsender, reducing message clutter. {{<issue 22379>}}
* Enables transaction state to be cleared promptly after a table is deleted, preventing table deletion from getting stuck and resulting in faster functionality. {{<issue 22095>}}

#### yugabyted

* Directly enables `yb_enable_read_committed_isolation` and `ysql_enable_read_request_caching` on `yb-master` and `yb-tserver` processes. {{<issue 22061>}}
* Simplifies yugabyted by dropping Python2 support and transitioning the script to use Python3, replacing deprecated distutils package with shutil. {{<issue 22072>}},{{<issue 21409>}}
* Changes the flag name for enabling PostgreSQL feature parity from `enable_pg_parity_tech_preview` to `enable_pg_parity_early_access` in yugabyted. {{<issue 21221>}}
* Directly enables `yb_enable_read_committed_isolation` and `ysql_enable_read_request_caching` on `yb-master` and `yb-tserver` processes. {{<issue 22061>}}
* Simplifies yugabyted by dropping Python2 support and transitioning the script to use Python3, replacing deprecated distutils package with shutil. {{<issue 22072>}},{{<issue 21409>}}
* Changes the flag name for enabling PostgreSQL feature parity from `enable_pg_parity_tech_preview` to `enable_pg_parity_early_access` in yugabyted. {{<issue 21221>}}

### Bug fixes

#### YSQL

* Avoids failure when upgrading from version 2.14/2.16 to 2.20 by introducing a check to ensure pggate can handle RPC metrics sidecar before sending Scanned Rows count. {{<issue 21229>}}
* Safeguards against an out-of-bounds memory write error in HashAggregate plan node with duplicate columns by rectifying array size allocation. Imported tests ensure the fix's robustness. {{<issue 21122>}}
* Disables bitmap scan by default to prevent unwarranted selection due to lower CBO costs. {{<issue 21479>}}
* Allows YSQL DDL operations to wait for rollback/roll-forward operations to finish before proceeding. {{<issue 20033>}}
* Reduces unnecessary log messages when `catalog_version_table_in_perdb_mode` is set to true. {{<issue 21481>}}
* Corrects an issue where certain unbatchable filters weren't detected during indexpath formation when indexpath accepted batched values from multiple relations. Requires backports to 2.20 and 2.18. {{<issue 21292>}}
* Adds network latency cost to startup cost, yielding more accurate cost calculations in small tables. {{<issue 20898>}}
* Allows more accurate modeling of base scan costs by taking into account the impact of storage index filters on secondary index. {{<issue 20635>}}
* Renames the YSQL configuration parameter `ddl_rollback_enabled` to `yb_ddl_rollback_enabled` for specificity. {{<issue 21480>}}
* Resolves colocation option issues in table creation linked to table rewriting and partitioning. Enhances the `defGetBoolean` function to parse string values "0" and "1" as false and true respectively, and shifts a verification step to a earlier spot in the CREATE TABLE execution path, ensuring successful table partition creation. {{<issue 20302>}},{{<issue 20914>}}
* Exposes the YSQL configuration parameter `yb_enable_optimizer_statistics` as a gflag `ysql_yb_enable_optimizer_statistics`. {{<issue 21650>}}
* Corrects checks in YbIsScanCompatible to ensure the right-hand side (RHS) of all bound index conditions, not just inequalities, fits into the left-hand side (LHS) datatype. {{<issue 21758>}}
* The deadlock issue occurring when both a table and its index are deleted concurrently in yb-master has been resolved. {{<issue 21663>}}
* Fixes a bug that caused incorrect setting of global catalog version mode on tserver start. {{<issue 21850>}}
* Deprecates the unused `enable_pg_savepoints` flag to prevent irregular system behaviour. {{<issue 20918>}}
* Refines the `YbGetOrdinaryColumnsNeedingPgRecheck` condition to align with the `ybIsTupMismatch` implementation, ensuring Postgres rechecks index conditions when the "preliminary check" is skipped due to an invalid target key attnum. {{<issue 21451>}}
* Reduces the frequency of `schema version mismatch` errors during consecutive DDL operations by ensuring the up-to-date schema is fetched. {{<issue 21706>}}
* Allows usage of `YsqlDdlRollbackEnabled` in pggate C++ code by correctly passing the result of `YbDdlRollbackEnabled`, reducing DDL atomicity g-flag issues in RF 1 clusters. {{<issue 21706>}}
* Ensures pushed down `RowCompareExpressions` correctly enforce non-null column references, rectifying previous behavior and enhancing data accuracy. {{<issue 21847>}}
* The Postgres process no longer crashes when running a "show all" command due to correct placement of the `yb_enable_ddl_atomicity_infra` description. {{<issue 21947>}}
* Adds a new GFlag `ysql_min_new_version_ignored_count` to prevent a tserver crash caused by the downward shift in yb-master's catalog version, often surfacing post a PITR restore operation. {{<issue 21776>}}
* Adjusts the value of `YB_AT_REWRITE_ALTER_PRIMARY_KEY` to prevent flag clashes and accommodate future upstream PG flags. {{<issue 22086>}}
* Fills in the "relation" column in `pg_locks` with the correct table OID after a table rewrite. {{<issue 22081>}}
* Prevents query layer retries for multi-statement queries to avoid redoing whole queries, ensuring idempotence. {{<issue 21361>}}
* Prevents unnecessary CPU cycles and log flooding by not reading `pg_yb_catalog_version` when `enable_ysql=false`. {{<issue 22213>}}
* Corrects the log message for successful column drop operations, ensuring accurate representation of DDL operations. {{<issue 22243>}}

#### YCQL

* Allows the deletion of the Cassandra role in YCQLsh without it regenerating upon cluster restart, by adding a flag to mark if the role was previously created. {{<issue 21057>}}

#### DocDB

* Ensures `Create Table` operation fails if `Alter Replication` encounters an error, enhancing the reliability of replication setup. {{<issue 21732>}}
* Converted the `ysql_skip_row_lock_for_update` to an auto-flag to resolve compatibility issues during upgrade, preventing incorrect DB record creations that can affect row visibility and integrity. {{<issue 22057>}}
* Modifies memory consumption calculations for pending operations to ensure accurate rejection of new writes at bootstrap, preventing loading failures. {{<issue 21254>}}
* Trims large error messages in AsyncRpc::Failed to prevent hitting memory limit and resulting unavailability. {{<issue 21402>}}
* Renames and updates the description of the gflag `min_secustomerent_size_to_rollover_at_flush` for clarity. {{<issue 21691>}}
* Changes the class of `enable_automatic_tablet_splitting` gflag from `kLocalPersisted` (class 2) to `kExternal` (class 4) to eliminate setup issues with XCluster configurations. {{<issue 22088>}}
* Fixes a segmentation fault in yb-master by checking for a null pointer before dereferencing it, addressing an issue in the CDC run on `2.23.0.0-b37-arm`. {{<issue 21648>}}
* Allows DML operations on non-replicated databases and blocks DML only on databases in transactional xCluster replication STANDBY mode. Now only databases part of an inbound transactional xCluster replication group in the xCluster safe time map will have DML operations blocked. Also, certain attributes are moved from tserver to `TserverXClusterContext`. {{<issue 21245>}}
* Adds a TSAN suppression to manage the apparent race condition in the function `boost::regex_match`. {{<issue 21585>}}
* Eliminates potential FATAL errors during reported tabletPB creation by ensuring retrieval of schema version is atomic. {{<issue 21340>}}
* Enables the session to outlive the callback by holding a shared pointer to it, preventing potential crashes during concurrent DML queries. {{<issue 21103>}}
* Prevents yb-master crash by ensuring background task isn't deleted before the callback is invoked. {{<issue 21773>}}
* Enables callback completion wait in `PollTransactionStatusBase` during shutdown to prevent unexpected process termination. {{<issue 21773>}}
* Allows viewing of the rpc bind addresses in the master leader UI, especially beneficial in cases like k8s where the rpc bind address with the pod DNS is more useful than the broadcast address. {{<issue 21959>}}
* Reduces unnecessary logging during checkpoint operations by lowering INFO level logs to DEBUG_LEVEL, enhancing log readability. {{<issue 21658>}}
* Prevents fatal errors by skipping ReserveMarker/AsyncAppend if the tablet peer has already been shut down. {{<issue 21769>}}
* Enhances YSQL operation by refining task shutdown procedures and avoiding unnecessary task aborts. {{<issue 21917>}}
* Enhances load balancer efficiency by refining validation logic to block tablet replica additions only for those with a pending delete in progress on the same server, avoiding potential slowdowns during mass tablet replica moves. {{<issue 21806>}}
* Avoids multiple destruction of the same database connection, preventing system crashes due to simultaneous connection failures. {{<issue 21738>}}
* Stops fatal errors caused by the re-use of remote log anchor session during remote bootstrap from a non-leader peer. This fix ensures shared pointers are accurately tracked for `tablet_peer` objects using the `=` operator, preventing unintentional destruction of underlying objects. {{<issue 22007>}}
* Corrects a bug causing some tablet metrics to display incorrect metric_type attribute. {{<issue 21608>}}
* Enables the `skip_table_tombstone_check` for colocated tables to prevent errors. {{<issue 22115>}}
* Initializes `prev_op` to `UNKNOWN` to prevent AlmaLinux 8 fastdebug gcc11 compilation failures. {{<issue 21811>}}
* Delays `min_running_ht` initialization until after the successful completion of tablet bootstrap to prevent unexpected behaviors. {{<issue 22099>}}
* Resolves the issue of `pg_locks` query failure due to missing host node UUID in distributed transactions. {{<issue 22181>}}
* Eliminates latency spikes in conflicting workloads by preventing redundant `ProbeTransactionDeadlock` rpcs. {{<issue 22426>}}

#### CDC

* Ensures deletion of MemoryContext after each GetChanges RPC to prevent memory leaks. {{<issue 22328>}}
* Fixes a memory leakage issue in the walsender process by deep freeing the cached record batch after streaming to the client. {{<issue 21530>}}
* Adds more debug logs in the walsender to aid in investigating issues like linked data loss. {{<issue 21465>}}
* Adds more debug logs for stress run debugging, skips `RollbackToSubTransaction` RPC to local tserver if not needed, and enhances debugging of the ListReplicationSlots function. {{<issue 21780>}},{{<issue 21519>}},{{<issue 21652>}}
* Removes table level attributes from CDCSDK metrics to avoid tserver crash due to failed DCHECK assertion. {{<issue 22142>}}
* Fixes the segmentation fault in walsender for dynamic table addition by refreshing stored replica identities and preventing a race condition when creating dynamic tables. {{<issue 22273>}}
* Solves an issue where CDCSDK incorrectly deduces tablets as not interesting for stream before reaching the configured time limit. {{<issue 22383>}}
* Enables support for streaming update operations via Walsender, enhancing PG compatible logical replication support. Now executes schema changes in the logical replication protocol and maintains a record of changes in each table's read_time_ht hybrid time in the PG catalog. Includes handling late ALTER TABLE responses and addressing incomplete cleanup in the case of a stream creation failure. This feature is disabled under test flag `ysql_TEST_enable_replication_slot_consumption`. {{<issue 20725>}}
* Prevents failures in decoding change events by refreshing `cached_schema_details` when executing a new `GetChanges` request if the client indicates a necessity for the schema. {{<issue 20698>}}

#### yugabyted

* Prevents SyntaxWarning and exceptions when incorrect advertise_address is given by adjusting string literals and adding check for errors. {{<issue 22552>}},{{<issue 22210>}},{{<issue 22230>}}

#### Other

* Fixes hidden split parent tablets wrongly appearing as leaderless in the master's leaderless tablet endpoint, ensuring accurate load balance status and preventing potential issues with Point-in-Time Recovery (PITR) operations. {{<issue 21371>}}

</details>