---
title: What's new in the YugabyteDB v2025.1 STS release series
headerTitle: What's new in the YugabyteDB v2025.1 STS release series
linkTitle: v2025.1 series (STS)
description: Enhancements, changes, and resolved issues in the YugabyteDB v2024.1 STS release series recommended for production deployments.
menu:
 preview_releases:
   identifier: v2025.1
   parent: ybdb-releases
   weight: 2760
rightNav:
 hideH4: true
type: docs
---

What follows are the release notes for the YugabyteDB 2024.2 release series. Content will be added as new notable features and changes are available in the patch releases of the YugabyteDB 2024.2 release series.

For an RSS feed of all release series, point your feed reader to the [RSS feed for releases](../index.xml).

## v2025.1.0.0 - December 9, 2024 {#v2025.1.0.0}

**Build:** `2025.1.0.0-b145`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.0.0/yugabytedb-2025.1.0.0-b145-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.0.0/yugabytedb-anywhere-2025.1.0.0-b145-third-party-licenses.html)

### Downloads

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
  <li>
    <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.0.0/yugabyte-2025.1.0.0-b145-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-apple"></i>
      <span>macOS</span>
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.0.0/yugabyte-2025.1.0.0-b145-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
      <span>Linux x86</span>
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2025.1.0.0/yugabyte-2025.1.0.0-b145-el8-aarch64.tar.gz">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
      <span>Linux ARM</span>
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

**Docker:**

```sh
docker pull yugabytedb/yugabyte:2025.1.0.0-b145
```

### Highlights

**PostgreSQL 15 compatible YugabyteDB clusters** {{<tags/feature/ga idea="358">}}

This is the first stable release featuring a PostgreSQL fork rebase from version 11.2 to 15.0, enabling you to leverage the many key capabilities introduced in PostgreSQL between the two versions. This upgrade brings YSQL API support for numerous features, including stored generated columns, foreign keys on partitioned tables, and non-distinct NULLs in unique indexes. It also introduces query execution optimizations like incremental sort and memoization, along with various observability and security enhancements.

We're also pleased to announce that YugabyteDB 2025.1.0.0 supports in-place online upgrades and downgrade—even with the PostgreSQL fork rebased to 15.0.

**Note** that the source cluster must be running version 2024.2.3.0 or later to upgrade to version 2025.1.0.
For more information, refer to [PostgreSQL 15 features](/stable/develop/pg15-features/).

**Support pgvector extension - With Indexing support** {{<tags/feature/ea idea="1111">}}

Brings AI-native capability by supporting pgvector with indexing, enabling efficient similarity search in vector workloads. Enhances vector search capabilities by introducing [Hierarchical Navigable Small World (HNSW) indexing](/stable/explore/ysql-language-features/pg-extensions/extension-pgvector/#vector-indexing), enabling faster and more efficient high-dimensional vector lookups.

**Automatic transactional xCluster DDL replication** {{<tags/feature/ea idea="153">}}

YugabyteDB now supports YSQL DDL changes to be seamlessly replicated across xCluster setups, eliminating the need to manually apply DDLs on both source and target clusters.
For more information, refer to [Automatic DDl replication](/stable/deploy/multi-dc/async-replication/async-transactional-setup-automatic/#set-up-automatic-mode-replication).

**Parallel queries: Enabling PG parallelism for colocated tables** {{<tags/feature/ga idea="577">}}

Improves query performance for colocated tables by allowing PostgreSQL to leverage multiple CPUs, leading to faster query execution times. For more information, refer to [Parallel queries](/stable/explore/ysql-language-features/advanced-features/parallel-query/).

**Optimization for INSERT ON CONFLICT batching** {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1455">}}

Queries using the `INSERT ... ON CONFLICT` clause are optimized for efficient execution, with automatic batching applied when multiple statements are executed to improve performance.
For more information, refer to [yb_insert_on_conflict_read_batch_size](/stable/reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#yb-insert-on-conflict-read-batch-size).

**Cost-Based Optimizer (CBO)** {{<tags/feature/ga idea="483">}}

The CBO leverages YugabyteDB's distributed storage architecture and advanced query execution optimizations—including query pushdowns, LSM indexes, and batched nested loop joins—to deliver PostgreSQL-like performance.

For instructions on enabling CBO, refer to [Enable cost-based optimizer](/stable/best-practices-operations/ysql-yb-enable-cbo/).

**Bitmap scan support** {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1092">}}

Combine multiple indexes for more efficient scans.
For instructions on enabling bitmap-scan support, refer to [enable_bitmapscan](/stable/reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#enable-bitmapscan)

### New features

- yugabyted

  - Support for [upgrading to PG15](/stable/manage/ysql-major-upgrade-yugabyted/) for OSS clusters using yugabyted. {{<tags/feature/ea idea="1746">}}

  - A new yugabyted UI tab is enabled to display the [xCluster](/stable/reference/configuration/yugabyted/#xcluster) replication details of the source and destination universe. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1763">}}

  - [yugabyted](/stable/reference/configuration/yugabyted/#create-a-single-node-universe) enables support for IPv6 address. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1854">}}

  - [Voyager assessment UI enhancements](/preview/yugabyte-voyager/migrate/assess-migration/#get-started-with-migration-assessment) which provides detailed information on migration complexity and breakdown of schema recommendation. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="2184">}}

- [Catalog caching](/stable/best-practices-operations/ysql-catalog-cache-tuning-guide/)

  - Provides ability to find catalog tables which can be preloaded to improve latency for first query in connection or after DDL in the cluster. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1781">}}

  - Compressed catalog tuples when storing in the PG catalog cache to reduce the memory consumption. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1229">}}

  - Optimized DDL performance by enabling targeted catalog cache invalidation, significantly reducing impact on concurrent DMLs. This avoids rebuilding the entire cache in most cases. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="599">}}

- [Sampling schema in Analyze](/stable/reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#yb-sampling-algorithm). With sampled analyze, the time to analyze a table is no longer proportional to the size of the table. This improvement brings the time to analyze down significantly. For example, time to analyze 1 TB table is down from 35 minutes to under 3 minutes. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1790">}}

- Improved bulk load performance for colocated tables. Introduced a fast path support for bulk load scenarios for colocated tables in particular (controlled by [ysql_colocated_fastpath_txn_copy](/stable/api/ysql/the-sql-language/statements/cmd_copy/#copy-with-fast-path-transaction-for-colocated-tables)) that can improve `COPY` times up to 3x on colocated tables with multiple indexes. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1802">}}

- [Advisory locks](/stable/explore/transactions/explicit-locking/#advisory-locks). Enables session-based and transactional advisory locks for coordination and concurrency control in distributed environments. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="812">}}

- [Non-disruptive adding of indexes for xCluster](/stable/deploy/multi-dc/async-replication/async-transactional-tables/) Adding an index to a database configured with [bi-directional xCluster Replication](/stable/deploy/multi-dc/async-replication/async-deployment/#adding-ysql-indexes-in-bidirectional-replication) (or other non-transactional xCluster Repolication) is now a non-disruptive, no-downtime operation. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1536">}}

- [PITR-flashback query](/stable/manage/backup-restore/point-in-time-query/). Allows querying historical database state by specifying a past timestamp, aiding in auditing, debugging, and data analysis. {{<tags/feature/ea idea="1182">}}

- [Foreign key references](/stable/explore/ysql-language-features/advanced-features/partitions/#foreign-key-references). Allows creation of the Foreign keys on partitioned tables. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="467">}}

- [NULLS NOT DISTINCT](/stable/api/ysql/the-sql-language/statements/ddl_create_index/#nulls-not-distinct). By default unique indexes treat NULL values as distinct entries (and not equal), allowing multiple nulls for a column. The NULLS NOT DISTINCT allows multiple NULL values to be treated equivalently. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="934">}}

- Execution for queries using [InsertOnConflict clause](/stable/develop/best-practices-develop/data-modeling-perf/#upsert-multiple-rows-wherever-possible) are optimized for efficient execution for YugabyteDB distributed architecture. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1455">}}

- [Query Plan Management (QPM)](/stable/explore/query-1-performance/pg-hint-plan/) introduced to ensure stable and adaptable query performance by preventing plan regression and automatically detecting optimal new plans. {{<tags/feature/ea idea="1107">}}

- [YSQL table inheritance](/stable/explore/ysql-language-features/advanced-features/inheritance/) Adds YSQL support for table inheritance using the INHERITS keyword, which allows creating child tables that inherit columns and certain constraints from one or more parent tables. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="2158">}}

- [YSQL index consistency checker](/stable/api/ysql/exprs/func_yb_index_check/). yb_index_check() is a built-in utility that helps detect and diagnose index inconsistencies in your database to ensure reliable query results. {{<tags/feature/ea idea="2160">}}

- [Transactional DDL](/stable/explore/transactions/transactional-ddl/) Support to align YSQL DDL semantics with PostgreSQL by allowing DDL statements to execute within the main transaction block instead of autonomous transaction. {{<tags/feature/tp idea="1677">}}

- Added [CDC Logical Replication support](/stable/develop/change-data-capture/using-logical-replication/get-started/) for xCluster feature where both CDC and xCluster can work simultaneously on the same source tables. {{<tags/feature/ea idea="82">}}

- [Active Session History](/stable/explore/observability/active-session-history/#configure-ash) Get real-time and historical information about active sessions to analyze and troubleshoot performance issues. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="830">}}

- [PostgreSQL Anonymizer](/stable/explore/ysql-language-features/pg-extensions/extension-pganon/) extension, which masks or replaces personally identifiable information (PII) or commercially sensitive data, is now bundled with Yugabyte. {{<tags/feature/ga idea="1497">}}

### Change log

<details>
  <summary>View the detailed changelog</summary>

### Improvements

### Bug fixes

</details>
