---
title: What's new in the YugabyteDB v2024.2 LTS release series
headerTitle: What's new in the YugabyteDB v2024.2 LTS release series
linkTitle: v2024.2 series (LTS)
description: Enhancements, changes, and resolved issues in the YugabyteDB v2024.1 STS release series recommended for production deployments.
menu:
 preview_releases:
   identifier: v2024.2
   parent: ybdb-releases
   weight: 2780
rightNav:
 hideH4: true
type: docs
---

What follows are the release notes for the YugabyteDB 2024.2 release series. Content will be added as new notable features and changes are available in the patch releases of the YugabyteDB 2024.2 release series.

For an RSS feed of all release series, point your feed reader to the [RSS feed for releases](../index.xml).

## v2024.2.0.0 - December 9, 2024 {#v2024.2.0.0}

**Build:** `2024.2.0.0-b145`

**Third-party licenses:** [YugabyteDB](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.2.0.0/yugabytedb-2024.2.0.0-b145-third-party-licenses.html), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.2.0.0/yugabytedb-anywhere-2024.2.0.0-b145-third-party-licenses.html)

### Downloads

<ul class="nav yb-pills">
  <li>
    <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.2.0.0/yugabyte-2024.2.0.0-b145-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-apple"></i>
      <span>macOS</span>
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.2.0.0/yugabyte-2024.2.0.0-b145-linux-x86_64.tar.gz">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
      <span>Linux x86</span>
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="https://downloads.yugabyte.com/releases/2024.2.0.0/yugabyte-2024.2.0.0-b145-el8-aarch64.tar.gz">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-linux"></i>
      <span>Linux ARM</span>
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

**Docker:**

```sh
docker pull yugabytedb/yugabyte:2024.2.0.0-b145
```

### Highlights

We're excited to announce the [Early Access](/preview/releases/versioning/#early-access-ea) and [General Availability](/preview/releases/versioning/#general-availability-ga) of the following powerful new features in YugabyteDB aimed at simplifying operations, enhancing functionality, and improving performance.

**Yugabyte Kubernetes Operator** {{<tags/feature/ea>}}

The [Yugabyte Kubernetes Operator](/preview/tutorials/quick-start/kubernetes/#yugabytedb-kubernetes-operator) is a powerful tool designed to automate deploying, scaling, and managing YugabyteDB clusters in Kubernetes environments. It streamlines database operations, reducing manual effort for developers and operators. For more information, refer to the [YugabyteDB Kubernetes Operator](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-k8s-operator) GitHub project.

**Active session history** {{<tags/feature/ea>}}

Get real-time and historical views of system activity by sampling session activity in the database. This feature can be used to troubleshoot performance issues effectively. For more information, refer to [Active Session History](/stable/explore/observability/active-session-history/) (ASH) documentation.

**Instant database cloning** {{<tags/feature/ea>}}

[Instant database cloning](/stable/manage/backup-restore/instant-db-cloning/) allows you to quickly create independent copies of your database for data recovery, development, and testing. Clones can be created in seconds, and initially consume no additional disk space because they share the same data files as the original database at creation but operate independently after that. Clones can be created as of now or at any time in the recent past (within a configurable history retention period), enabling developers to experiment without impacting production performance. This feature also provides a safety net for rapid recovery from accidental SQL or CQL human errors that cause data loss or corruption.

**pg_cron extension** {{<tags/feature/ga>}}

The [pg_cron extension](/stable/explore/ysql-language-features/pg-extensions/extension-pgcron/) brings a cron-based job scheduler into the database. With pg_cron, you can schedule YSQL commands using familiar cron syntax, including jobs on intervals as fine as seconds. While pg_cron operates on a single node known as the pg_cron leader, the queries it schedules leverage the full resources of the distributed cluster. On node failure, leadership is automatically transferred, ensuring continuous availability and smooth scheduling operations.

**pg_partman extension** {{<tags/feature/ea>}}

Use the [pg_partman extension](/stable/explore/ysql-language-features/pg-extensions/extension-pgpartman/) to create and manage both time- and serial-based (aka range-based) table partition sets. pg_partman simplifies managing table partitions based on time or serial IDs, automating their creation and maintenance. pg_partman is often used in combination with [pg_cron](/stable/explore/ysql-language-features/pg-extensions/extension-pgcron/) for data lifecycle management, and specifically for managing data aging, retention, and expiration.

**Colocated tables with tablespaces** {{<tags/feature/ea>}}

Starting this release, you can create [colocated tables with tablespaces](/stable/explore/colocation/#colocated-tables-with-tablespaces). With this enhancement, you can now take advantage of colocated tables for geo-distributed use cases, eliminating the need for trade-offs between distributing data across specific regions. You enable the feature using the `ysql_enable_colocated_tables_with_tablespaces` flag.

**Improvement to backward scans** {{<tags/feature/ea>}}

The performance of YSQL backward table scans (for example, a descending-sorted query occurs against a table that is sorted ascending) has been improved by up to 10x in this release. You enable the feature using the `use_fast_backward_scan` flag.

### New features

* [xCluster support in yugabyted](/stable/reference/configuration/yugabyted/#set-up-xcluster-replication-between-clusters). Adds support for setting up and managing xCluster replication between two clusters deployed using yugabyted.

* [Semi-automatic xCluster replication](/stable/deploy/multi-dc/async-replication/async-replication-transactional/). Provides simplified management of YSQL transactional xCluster replication. xCluster management operations are now only required when adding and removing databases from replication. DDL changes can now be made by any database administrator or user with database permissions, and no longer require SSH access or intervention by an IT administrator.

* [xCluster observability](/stable/yugabyte-platform/alerts-monitoring/alert-policy-templates/#xcluster-config-tables-are-in-bad-state). Improved ability for users to monitor xCluster metrics like Replication Lag, Safetime Lag, and replication errors. {{<tags/feature/ea>}}

* [Follower reads](/stable/explore/going-beyond-sql/follower-reads-ysql/). Added support for setting `yb_read_from_followers=true` inside a transaction block using SET LOCAL. This allows greater convenience when setting follower reads for single transactions. You must set `yb_read_from_followers` before any statement is executed in the block.

* [Improved query performance](/stable/reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#pg-client-use-shared-memory). Implemented shared memory for PostgreSQL to TServer communication to minimize latency and enhance query performance by reducing communication overhead. This enhancement is part of [Enhanced PostgreSQL compatibility mode](../../../develop/postgresql-compatibility/).

<!-- IDEA-1093 is moved to 2024.2.1
* [Skip column updates](/stable/reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#yb-skip-redundant-update-ops). Avoids updating columns which are included in any index and foreign key constraints when the columns values are not changed. -->

* SELECT query performance. Enables the batching for locking the rows and thus helps improve the performance of the queries which lock more than 1 row using SELECT FOR UPDATE.
<!-- No docs needed-->

* Sequential scan speed. Improved ANALYZE and sequential scan performance by leveraging OS-level read-ahead, resulting in up to 8x faster ANALYZE operations.
<!-- IDEA-1878. Unsure about docs -->

* ALTER support. Added support for miscellaneous ALTER TABLE DDLs.
<!-- DOC-528 pending -->

* Catalog caching. Added ability to find catalog tables that can be pre-loaded to improve latency for the first query in a connection, or after a DDL change in the cluster. {{<tags/feature/ea>}}
<!-- DOC-526, won't make it to 2024.2 -->

* CDC connector on Confluent Hub. YugabyteDB CDC Connector is now available in Confluent Hub. {{<tags/feature/ea>}}
<!-- No docs needed-->

* [Connection pooling](/stable/explore/going-beyond-sql/connection-mgr-ysql/). Added support for built-in connection pooling. {{<tags/feature/tp>}}

### Change log

<details>
  <summary>View the detailed changelog</summary>

### Improvements

#### YSQL

* Enhances logging for YSQL version mismatch errors and DDL operations. {{<issue 20084>}}
* Enables control over in-place index updates with `yb_enable_inplace_index_update`. {{<issue 20908>}}
* Allows use of `UNLOGGED` tables syntax, handling it as `LOGGED` with a warning. {{<issue 23895>}},{{<issue 23889>}}
* Reduces memory usage by compressing large catalog objects in catcache. {{<issue 21040>}}
* Enables DDL atomicity by default, enhancing schema version consistency. {{<issue 22097>}}
* Adds a new YSQL view for YCQL statement metrics to aid in query analysis and troubleshooting. {{<issue 20616>}}
* Displays distinct index columns directly in EXPLAIN output. {{<issue 20831>}}
* Enables controlled activation of the DDL atomicity feature during upgrades. {{<issue 21535>}}
* Enhances session management by updating read times more consistently. {{<issue 21623>}}
* Allows loading only `pg_shdepend` in `YbInitPinnedCacheIfNeeded` for cross-database DDLs. {{<issue 21635>}}
* Enables monitoring of YCQL statements through a new YSQL view, enhancing query analysis. {{<issue 20616>}}
* Enhances schema version consistency by re-invalidating table cache post-`ALTER TABLE` with DDL atomicity. {{<issue 21787>}}
* Adds new monitoring columns to `localhost:13000/statements` for enhanced tracking. {{<issue 21735>}}
* Enables logging for global-impact DDL statements that adjust all database catalog versions. {{<issue 21826>}}
* Sorts YSQL extensions into three specific directories for better organization. {{<issue 21897>}}
* Fixes schema version mismatch after `ALTER TABLE` in production builds, ensuring reliable schema updates. {{<issue 21787>}}
* Introduces the `yb_parallel_range_size` parameter to customize parallel range sizes. {{<issue 21928>}}
* Removes the unused `keep_order` field from `YbctidGenerator` for streamlined processing. {{<issue 21944>}}
* Introduces the `yb_enable_parallel_append` flag to disable parallel append and avoid exposing unannounced features. {{<issue 21934>}}
* Enhances code clarity and performance with style and logic refinements. {{<issue 22004>}}
* Enables creation of dummy vector indexes in YSQL with placeholder functionality. {{<issue 22195>}}
* Disallows move and copy operations for LWFunction to prevent misuse. {{<issue 22069>}}
* Streamlines and deduplicates logic for `ybgin` and `lsm` access methods, enhancing support for new index types. {{<issue 22195>}}
* Enables CREATE/DROP ACCESS METHOD grammar, supporting custom access methods and extensions. {{<issue 22364>}}
* Clarifies log messages for DDL atomicity in TableSchemaVerificationTask. {{<issue 22459>}}
* Eliminates duplicated logic for YSQL hidden column `ybrowid` handling. {{<issue 22536>}}
* Adds save and restore functionality for `ConsistentReadPoint` state. {{<issue 22597>}}
* Ensures consistent table names in backup/restore scenarios by not renaming DocDB tables during legacy rewrites. {{<issue 22802>}}
* Disables Python checks on all third-party PG extensions. {{<issue 23166>}}
* Simplifies coding in PgDml and related classes by streamlining parameters and functions. {{<issue 23192>}}
* Enables the optimizer to prefer backward scans when `FLAGS_use_fast_backward_scan` is enabled. {{<issue 22370>}}
* Adds new flags for role management in YSQL backups and restores. {{<issue 20972>}}
* Enhances code clarity and documentation for Batch Nested Loop Join logic. {{<issue 23407>}}
* Introduces a dedicated auth-backend for YSQL to handle connection authentication, enhancing security and streamlining the process. {{<issue 24147>}}
* Ensures correct error handling by adding a missing InvalidOid check in YSQL. {{<issue 24147>}}
* Enables authentication via a specialized backend, enhancing security and reliability. {{<issue 24147>}},{{<issue 24427>}}
* Enables toggling authentication method in YSQL using the `ysql_conn_mgr_use_auth_backend` flag. {{<issue 24147>}}

#### YCQL

* Adds error message for unsupported `GROUP BY` in YCQL; introduces flag to suppress it. {{<issue 13956>}}
* Resolves timestamp precision mismatches in YCQL, aligning inserts and index scans to millisecond precision. {{<issue 11052>}},{{<issue 23476>}}

#### DocDB

* Tracks and analyzes disk I/O by stack trace, enhancing debugging and system understanding. {{<issue 17993>}}
* Resolves a build failure that arose from a naming conflict in debug flags. {{<issue 17993>}}
* Blocks writes based on total bytes being flushed, not just memtable count. {{<issue 22571>}}
* Enables background DNS resolution to prevent RPC delays. {{<issue 22930>}},{{<issue 22311>}}
* Enhances load balancer to prioritize under-replicated tablets first. {{<issue 20263>}}
* Introduces a flag to toggle between new and legacy memory default settings. {{<issue 22161>}}
* Logs memory stack traces to help diagnose OOM errors, with configurable throttling. {{<issue 21396>}}
* Upgrades non-FIPS OpenSSL to 3.0.15 and removes CentOS 7 builds. {{<issue 24436>}}
* Prevents overloading by correctly categorizing bootstrapping tablets in load balancing. {{<issue 23487>}}
* Deprecates unused flags to reduce confusion and streamline configurations. {{<issue 20906>}}
* Ensures debug builds can restart from release builds for easier debugging. {{<issue 21093>}}
* Streamlines xCluster management by relocating specific table and stream mappings to `XClusterSourceManager`. {{<issue 21325>}}
* Enables faster backward scans in DocDB with new flags for optimization. {{<issue 19352>}}
* Enhances error messages for unset preview flags in `allowed_preview_flags_csv`. {{<issue 21484>}}
* Ensures `GetChangesForXCluster` does not return invalid safe times. {{<issue 21528>}}
* Adjusts TServer memory recommendations and adds new defaults based on node RAM size. {{<issue 20664>}}
* Adds usearch and fp16 libraries for enhanced vector indexing. {{<issue 21830>}}
* Ensures correct error messages are shown when creating tables or tablegroups. {{<issue 21760>}}
* Enables replication of DDL schemas and user settings across clusters. {{<issue 21848>}}
* Ensures early, clear error messages on timeouts by introducing a flag `are_nodes_safe_to_take_down_timeout_buffer_ms`. {{<issue 21855>}}
* Removes the "No active snapshot" warning log to streamline debugging. {{<issue 21911>}}
* Ensures DDLs are rerun exactly once by checking `replicated_ddls` before execution. {{<issue 21943>}}
* Streamlines xCluster stream creation by centralizing functionality in `XClusterClient::CreateXClusterStream<Async>`. {{<issue 22343>}}
* Adds `skip_producer_stream_deletion` flag to speed up xCluster DR failovers. {{<issue 22050>}}
* Reduces thread usage by reusing the server messenger for AutoFlags. {{<issue 22076>}}
* Reduces thread usage by reusing server processes in stateful service clients. {{<issue 22102>}}
* Enhances validation with `SCHECK_PB_FIELDS_NOT_EMPTY` to ensure PB fields are non-empty. {{<issue 22182>}}
* Ensures `DROP TABLE` operation with atomic DDL waits until the table is fully deleted. {{<issue 22184>}}
* Enhances extensibility by splitting `yb_xcluster_ddl_replication.c` into multiple files. {{<issue 22190>}}
* Removes deprecated xCluster JSON format to streamline functionality. {{<issue 22219>}}
* Blocks multi-statement DDL queries to prevent replication issues. {{<issue 22060>}}
* Reduces complexity in `catalog_manager` by relocating RPC endpoints to `MasterClusterHandler`. {{<issue 19715>}}
* Adds `read-time` option to `ysql_dump` help for point-in-time database dumps. {{<issue 21886>}}
* Renames flag to `xcluster_consumer_thread_pool_size` for clearer usage and efficiency. {{<issue 20305>}}
* Removes unnecessary locks in DeleteOrHideTabletsAndSendRequests to prevent deadlocks. {{<issue 22618>}}
* Adds column sorting to stack trace tracking UI for easier data analysis. {{<issue 22841>}}
* Introduces session-based in-memory table locking for improved concurrency control. {{<issue 23045>}}
* Uses table IDs instead of names for matching in xCluster DDL replication setup. {{<issue 23013>}}
* Speeds up backward scans for flat doc reader with packed row V2. {{<issue 22556>}}
* Reuses TServer `yb::client` in `CDCService` to reduce resource usage and fix optimization issues. {{<issue 22893>}}
* Standardizes xCluster client usage and streamlines client creation in `XClusterConsumer`. {{<issue 22908>}}
* Ensures replication setup is successful only if all components are healthy. {{<issue 22948>}}
* Displays `external_hybrid_time` in log-dump to detect xCluster target writes. {{<issue 22918>}}
* Adds `SOURCE_UNREACHABLE` and `SYSTEM_ERROR` enums to xCluster for better error reporting. {{<issue 22996>}}
* Allows requesting xCluster streams by producer table IDs for accurate replication setup. {{<issue 23013>}}
* Adds easier access and tracking controls to stack trace endpoints. {{<issue 22842>}}
* Renamed and relocated xCluster components to streamline management and functionality. {{<issue 23044>}}
* Removes deprecated namespace replication code, enhancing system performance. {{<issue 23046>}}
* Enhances pggate to recognize fast backward scan capabilities for better query cost estimation. {{<issue 22937>}}
* Ensures debug builds can restart from release builds by making column ID representations consistent. {{<issue 21093>}}
* Enhances flags UI by hiding invalid flags and empty categories. {{<issue 23308>}}
* Enables storing and loading vector index updates in DocDB. {{<issue 23377>}}
* Streamlines statistics management in `IntentAwareIterator`. {{<issue 23420>}}
* Speeds up backward scans by caching keys, enabling quicker and more efficient data retrieval. {{<issue 22372>}}
* Allows configuring tablet splits based on size ratios with `FLAGS_tablet_split_min_size_ratio`. {{<issue 21458>}}
* Simplifies tracking heartbeat processes by relocating code to `master_heartbeat_service.cc`. {{<issue 21899>}},{{<issue 19715>}}
* Simplifies clone state management by moving retry data to in-memory structure. {{<issue 22138>}}
* Streamlines heartbeat code management by relocating it to `master_heartbeat_service.cc`. {{<issue 21899>}},{{<issue 19715>}}
* Enhances code readability by moving heartbeat code to `master_heartbeat_service.cc`. {{<issue 21899>}},{{<issue 19715>}}
* Moves tcmalloc profiling code to the util directory for better organization. {{<issue 22258>}}
* Introduces `enable_rwc_lock_debugging` flag to control RWCLock debug logging. {{<issue 22807>}}
* Switches `CloneStateInfo` object handling to `std::shared_ptr` for future flexibility. {{<issue 23036>}}
* Ensures schema names are not empty in `YBTableName` settings. {{<issue 23371>}}
* Simplifies management by shifting certain managers from Catalog Manager to Master. {{<issue 22603>}},{{<issue 19715>}}
* Enhances visibility of the `hidden` state in Master/Tserver UI tables. {{<issue 22521>}}
* Reduces unnecessary reads during CQL INSERT operations with range keys. {{<issue 23330>}}
* Adds `pg_yb_logical_client_version` table to manage session configurations. {{<issue 23871>}}
* Adds an `ABORTED` state for failed clones in YugabyteDB. {{<issue 21054>}}

#### CDC

* Ensures CDC streams are not deleted when all associated tables are dropped. {{<issue 21419>}}
* Adds new `yb-admin` commands to manage CDC streams, including removing tables. {{<issue 22876>}},{{<issue 22773>}}
* Prevents tables with enum array columns from being added to CDC streams. {{<issue 22897>}}
* `yb_enable_cdc_consistent_snapshot_streams` flag is now default true and automatic. {{<issue 22984>}}
* Sets retention barriers on tablets during table creation for PG replication. {{<issue 21643>}}
* Allows changing and persisting the `cdcsdk_publication_list_refresh_interval_secs` flag value for safer LSN handling. {{<issue 21796>}}
* Allows configuring default replica identity for tables using the `ysql_yb_default_replica_identity` flag. {{<issue 22326>}}
* Enables toggling dynamic table addition in virtual WAL with `cdcsdk_enable_dynamic_table_addition` flag. {{<issue 22406>}}
* Uses replication slot names to differentiate between consumption models. {{<issue 22810>}}
* Supports creation of old model streams via yb-admin in upgraded environments. {{<issue 22894>}}
* Allows setting per-table replica identity for CDC streams using the `ysql_yb_enable_replica_identity` flag. {{<issue 21314>}}
* Suppresses NOTICE messages when setting `yb_read_time` from walsender. {{<issue 22379>}}
* Speeds up tablet bootstrap under CDC by skipping initial WAL segments, controlled by `skip_wal_replay_from_beginning_with_cdc` flag. {{<issue 24516>}}

#### yugabyted

* Ensures `RENAME DATABASE` accurately follows connection rules. {{<issue 21284>}}
* Tracks role changes accurately by using `role_oid` instead of `role`. {{<issue 21505>}}
* Enables tracking of single-use YSQL configuration parameters in Connection Manager. {{<issue 21757>}}
* Enhances session consistency by using `role_oid` for `session_authorization` in Connection Manager. {{<issue 21637>}}
* Enables sticky connections when setting specific YSQL configuration parameters. {{<issue 22957>}}
* Enhances stability by destroying control connections during configuration reloads. {{<issue 21516>}}
* Enables better handling of complex YSQL configuration parameters using sticky connections. {{<issue 21637>}}
* Adds a new `/pitr` endpoint and UI screen for listing scheduled PITRs. {{<issue 21355>}}
* Adds `upgrade_finalize` command to yugabyted CLI for post-upgrade tasks. {{<issue 21888>}}
* Enables flags directly on `yb-master` and `yb-tserver` for better setting accuracy. {{<issue 22061>}}
* Alerts users about version mismatches between nodes via the UI. {{<issue 21888>}}
* Deprecates Python 2 in yugabyted and shifts to Python 3. {{<issue 22072>}},{{<issue 21409>}}
* Enables scalable parsing of multi-valued flags in `yugabyted` without code duplication. {{<issue 22091>}}
* Corrects CPU usage calculation in the Sankey diagram. {{<issue 22125>}}
* Ensures startup parameters with spaces parse correctly with YSQL Connection Manager. {{<issue 22248>}}
* Allows specifying multiple data directories using `additional_data_dir` flag. {{<issue 22126>}}
* Enables management of xCluster replication using `yugabyted` commands. {{<issue 22349>}}
* Adds `permanent_uuid` to `:7000/api/v1/tablet-servers` for more reliable UUID retrieval. {{<issue 22532>}}
* Ensures accurate CPU usage metrics in the YCQL table by updating `prev_ticks_` each iteration. {{<issue 22910>}}
* Prevents errors during node restart when `data_dir` is missing from the configuration. {{<issue 23052>}}
* `collect_logs` now works even if `yugabyted` is not running. {{<issue 23210>}}

### Bug fixes

#### YSQL

* Fixes error for index with bool NULLS LAST in YSQL. {{<issue 22121>}}
* Fixes YSQL upgrade exception in single connection mode. {{<issue 22283>}}
* Allows YB Admins without superuser status to run `pg_locks`. {{<issue 23266>}}
* Ensures safe upgrades by verifying pggate compatibility before sending `Scanned Rows`. {{<issue 21229>}}
* Disables in-place index updates by default to address index inconsistency issues. {{<issue 24672>}}
* Fixes out-of-bounds memory error in HashAggregate with duplicate hash keys. {{<issue 21122>}}
* Eliminates memory leaks in the YSQL cache system for improved database stability. {{<issue 22262>}}
* Fixes memory leak affecting catalog cache refresh during upgrades. {{<issue 22262>}}
* Fixes memory leaks in `CacheMemoryContext` to stabilize cache memory size after refresh. {{<issue 22262>}}
* Documents the limitation in retry logic for multi-statement queries in `ysqlsh`. {{<issue 21804>}}
* Prevents YSQL DDL operations from returning control until related rollbacks complete. {{<issue 20033>}}
* Enhances index scan efficiency by modeling remote index filters in cost calculations. {{<issue 20635>}}
* Fixes issues with colocation in table rewrites and partitions. {{<issue 20302>}},{{<issue 20914>}}
* Renames `ddl_rollback_enabled` to `yb_ddl_rollback_enabled` for clarity. {{<issue 21480>}}
* Adds network latency to startup costs and fixes bug for small table costs. {{<issue 20898>}}
* Disables bitmap scans by default to prevent regressions with CBO. {{<issue 21479>}}
* Reduces unnecessary logging when `catalog_version_table_in_perdb_mode` is set to true. {{<issue 21481>}}
* Correctly identifies unbatchable filters in indexpath creation. {{<issue 21292>}}
* Enables control of optimizer statistics via the `ysql_yb_enable_optimizer_statistics` flag. {{<issue 21650>}}
* Fixes buffer overflow during `ALTER TABLE SET TABLESPACE` operation. {{<issue 21655>}}
* Resolves deadlock issues when deleting a table and its index concurrently in YB-Master. {{<issue 21663>}}
* Ensures consistent query results with JSONB columns by fixing recheck criteria in index scans. {{<issue 21451>}}
* Fixes query accuracy by ensuring RHS values fit the LHS data type in index conditions. {{<issue 21758>}}
* Blocks query layer retries for multi-statement queries to prevent unintended effects. {{<issue 21361>}}
* Fixes TServer startup to correctly maintain per-database catalog version mode. {{<issue 21850>}}
* Fixes a bug in index tuple width calculation for cost estimation. {{<issue 21892>}}
* Ensures RowCompareExpressions correctly enforce non-null column conditions. {{<issue 21847>}}
* Reduces schema version mismatch errors during consecutive DDL statements with atomicity enabled. {{<issue 21706>}}
* Enables consistent DDL execution across databases by fixing flag behavior. {{<issue 21706>}}
* Introduces `ysql_min_new_version_ignored_count` flag to prevent delays in TServer crashes when versions mismatch. {{<issue 21776>}}
* Resolves PostgreSQL process crashes on the "show all" command by correcting text description locations for the `yb_enable_ddl_atomicity_infra` parameter. {{<issue 21947>}}
* Fixes restarts of UPDATE ...RETURNING queries in debug builds. {{<issue 22010>}}
* Reverts naming from "Storage SQL" to "Remote SQL" in `postgres_fdw.c`. {{<issue 22070>}}
* Ensures ALTER TABLE operates correctly after rules are dropped with `old` rewrite off. {{<issue 22064>}}
* Ensures `pg_locks` displays correct table OID instead of relfilenode after table rewrites. {{<issue 22081>}}
* Resolves flag clashes by setting `YB_AT_REWRITE_ALTER_PRIMARY_KEY` to `0x8000`. {{<issue 22086>}}
* Fixes PostgreSQL crashes triggered by enabling `yb_debug_log_catcache_events`. {{<issue 22139>}}
* Enables backward parallel scans in YSQL for more flexible data querying. {{<issue 21633>}}
* Stops unnecessary CPU use and log warnings when YSQL is disabled. {{<issue 22213>}}
* Corrects log messages for successfully dropped columns to indicate "roll forward" instead of "rollback". {{<issue 22243>}}
* Enhances stability by modifying batch operation constraints for indexed queries. {{<issue 21954>}}
* Reduces crashes and allocation errors in specific join operations. {{<issue 21878>}}
* Reduces errors by giving BNL hashtable its own expression context. {{<issue 21266>}}
* Re-enables rechecking for RowCompareExpressions to enhance accuracy with NULL inputs. {{<issue 22075>}}
* Corrects style declaration of `YbDdlRollbackEnabled` to eliminate GCC errors. {{<issue 22334>}}
* Fixes an issue with invalid pointer usage in relation data loading. {{<issue 22342>}}
* Enhances `yb_get_range_split_clause` to handle decoding errors gracefully, preventing backup issues. {{<issue 22356>}}
* Fixes memory leaks in `ybcFetchNextHeapTuple` by properly freeing YBCStatus. {{<issue 22396>}}
* Stops the YSQL webserver properly on SIGTERM to prevent coredumps. {{<issue 18948>}}
* Adds warnings and errors for system catalog table misuse. {{<issue 22520>}}
* Fixes primary key inheritance when attaching partitions with `ALTER TABLE`. {{<issue 22562>}}
* Prevents OID collision by excluding OID 65535 for database allocation. {{<issue 22598>}}
* Skips relfilenode checks for parent partition tables in schema verification. {{<issue 22625>}}
* Enhances accuracy in backward prefix-based scans by removing `kGroupEnd` markers. {{<issue 22615>}}
* Removes an unused function to reduce confusion. {{<issue 22649>}}
* Ensures bitmap scans correctly recheck results using all necessary columns, preventing incorrect query results. {{<issue 22622>}}
* Corrects handling of `IN` expressions on single columns to prevent incorrect tuple path execution. {{<issue 22704>}}
* Corrects data type error in tuple range checks during scans. {{<issue 22800>}}
* Ensures creating shared relations during YSQL upgrade increments catalog version globally. {{<issue 22830>}}
* Adds a function to reset statistics collected by the ANALYZE command. {{<issue 22028>}}
* Fixes a bug to prevent crashes and errors by ensuring correct column numbers are used for recheck. {{<issue 22832>}}
* Fixes a deadlock issue during DDL operations by adjusting lock handling. {{<issue 22882>}}
* Eliminates false log errors in DDL operations by ensuring callback invocation correctness. {{<issue 22882>}}
* Adjusts handling of INCLUDE columns in index scans to ensure proper sorting. {{<issue 22822>}}
* Enhances the `EXPLAIN` command to accurately report subquery distinct index scans. {{<issue 22923>}}
* Enhances sequence cache uniqueness by using database and sequence OIDs together. {{<issue 22935>}}
* Fixes crash in `Values Scan` by repairing SubPlans in multi-row VALUES lists. {{<issue 22967>}}
* Enables faster inserts into tables with identity columns by optimizing single-shard transactions. {{<issue 22837>}}
* Fixes log formatting and memory deallocation in `yb_pclose_check`. {{<issue 23057>}}
* Resumes `drop column` operations if alterations miss the initial completion step. {{<issue 23100>}}
* Eliminates unnecessary wait for concurrent transaction completion in DEFERRABLE READ ONLY transactions. {{<issue 23120>}}
* Prevents TServer crashes by altering type lookup for certain SAOPs. {{<issue 23287>}}
* Blocks `REINDEX` and `TRUNCATE` on system tables using table rewrite. {{<issue 24356>}}
* Ensures parent partitioned tables correctly rewrite during operations, preventing backup/restore errors. {{<issue 24458>}}
* Assumes indexes contain 1000 rows when statistics are unavailable, ensuring better query planning. {{<issue 24496>}}
* Fixes foreign key checks to avoid errors with unique indexes. {{<issue 24663>}}
* Adds error prevention for pushed-down expressions that access the catalog cache. {{<issue 23401>}}
* Increases YSQL connection manager's thread stack size to 512 KB to prevent crashes on Alma 9 machines. {{<issue 24979>}}
* Fixes memory leaks in YSQL Connection Manager for improved stability. {{<issue 10065>}}
* Ensures xCluster YBClients connect using specified addresses by setting `skip_master_flagfile`. {{<issue 23145>}}
* Disables index update optimization by default to fix `ON CONFLICT UPDATE` issues. {{<issue 25075>}}

#### YCQL

* Stops automatic regeneration of deleted `cassandra` role on cluster restart. {{<issue 21057>}}

#### DocDB

* Enhances read latency measurement during remote bootstrap with compression adjustments. {{<issue 20848>}}
* Prevents data corruption by handling blind writes in heartbeat processing. {{<issue 21836>}}
* Avoids crashes from parsing invalid timestamps in LTO builds by updating exception handling. {{<issue 22191>}}
* Eliminates unnecessary flush during snapshot deletion, preventing write blocks. {{<issue 22369>}}
* Resolves deadlocks in xCluster setup by standardizing lock order. {{<issue 22376>}}
* Ensures scans honor set timeouts to avoid indefinite read operations. {{<issue 21829>}}
* Enables restores to times just before the oldest snapshot in a schedule. {{<issue 21269>}}
* Ensures full xCluster error info is sent to masters post-failover. {{<issue 22624>}}
* Adds validation to prevent deletion of snapshots used in restores and vice versa. {{<issue 23055>}}
* Prevents server crashes during table truncation by safely shutting down iterators before releasing locks. {{<issue 23243>}}
* TServers now reject remote bootstrap requests for previously deleted tablets. {{<issue 24574>}}
* Sets a default 10MB max size for RocksDB MANIFEST files, now configurable via flags. {{<issue 11117>}}
* Ensures creating an index fails if it can't be added to transactional replication. {{<issue 21732>}}
* Enables `ysql_skip_row_lock_for_update` as an auto-flag to ensure safe upgrades. {{<issue 22057>}}
* Eliminates inconsistencies by not including inactive tablets in `OpenTable` operations. {{<issue 24860>}}
* Ensures consistent memory usage estimation for write operations at bootstrap and runtime. {{<issue 21254>}}
* Now truncates error messages over 1KB in `AsyncRpc::Failed` to prevent crashes. {{<issue 21402>}}
* Ensures hidden tables and tablets are excluded from snapshot generation to prevent cloning issues. {{<issue 21631>}}
* Prevents crashes during leader changes by clearing old leader data properly. {{<issue 21808>}}
* Renames flag `min_secustomerent_size_to_rollover_at_flush` to specify units. {{<issue 21691>}}
* Adjusts the class of the `enable_automatic_tablet_splitting` flag to ensure xCluster compatibility. {{<issue 22088>}}
* Switches from `scoped_refptr` to `std::shared_ptr` to safely manage memory in TabletInfo, preventing use-after-free errors. {{<issue 18257>}},{{<issue 21139>}}
* Ensures cotable IDs match in snapshots and restores for colocated tablets. {{<issue 23047>}}
* Ensures replication consistency for new tables in colocated databases after T-server restarts. {{<issue 23188>}}
* Switches pg_cron back to using standard `SIGTERM` handling for cleaner shutdowns. {{<issue 24658>}}
* Ensures consistent tablegroup assignments for colocated table backups without using explicit tablespaces. {{<issue 24809>}}
* Eliminates fatal errors during tabletPB creation by ensuring atomic operations. {{<issue 21340>}}
* Prevents race conditions during WAL closure and consensus destruction. {{<issue 21564>}}
* Adds TSAN suppression for `boost::regex_match` to eliminate false positives. {{<issue 21585>}}
* Restores compilation on almalinux8 fastdebug gcc11. {{<issue 21536>}}
* Fixes metric attribute collisions and ensures correct metric types for tablets. {{<issue 21608>}}
* Avoids segmentation faults in `yb-master` by checking for null pointers before use. {{<issue 21648>}}
* Reduces logging redundancy during checkpoint operations to VLOG(1). {{<issue 21658>}}
* Blocks DML on databases exclusively under STANDBY xCluster mode. {{<issue 21245>}}
* Extends the lifecycle of the session in CDC State Table callback to prevent crashes. {{<issue 21103>}}
* Prevents duplicate connection destruction attempts during concurrent failures. {{<issue 21738>}}
* Enables viewing RPC bind addresses in the master leader UI. {{<issue 21959>}}
* Prevents node crash during WAL rotation if the log is closed. {{<issue 21769>}}
* Prevents crashes by ensuring background tasks aren't deleted prematurely during callbacks. {{<issue 21773>}}
* Ensures graceful shutdown by waiting for all callback completions in `PollTransactionStatusBase`. {{<issue 21773>}}
* Fixes compilation error on AlmaLinux 8 with gcc11 by initializing `prev_op`. {{<issue 21811>}}
* Fixes an incorrect TSAN suppression path for `boost::regex_match`. {{<issue 21585>}}
* Speeds up load balancer actions by allowing tablet additions on TS with pending deletes. {{<issue 21806>}}
* Enhances stability by handling RPC shutdowns and task aborts more effectively. {{<issue 21917>}}
* Prevents crashes during remote bootstrap with non-leader peers by enhancing session handling. {{<issue 22007>}}
* Delays `min_running_ht` initialization until after tablet bootstrap completes. {{<issue 22099>}}
* Ensures `skip_table_tombstone_check` is set for colocated tables. {{<issue 22115>}}
* Prevents crashes during catalog reloads by safely handling null `cluster_config_`. {{<issue 21775>}}
* Reduces the interval for tablet server metrics heartbeat to prevent misreporting leaderless tablets. {{<issue 22189>}}
* Reduces resource usage by reusing server `yb_client` in xCluster Consumer. {{<issue 22845>}}
* Fixes `pg_locks` to handle lock queries without specified transactions correctly. {{<issue 22181>}}
* Clarifies flag descriptions for memory division as a percentage of the hard memory limit. {{<issue 22423>}}
* Restores functionality of CI builds on GCC 12, debug AlmaLinux 9. {{<issue 22501>}}
* Ensures xCluster DDL replication captures the actual user's role, not the superuser. {{<issue 22514>}}
* Enhances logging for MemTable flushes to track memory limits more effectively. {{<issue 22737>}}
* Prevents corrupted characters in Prometheus metric descriptions during scrapes. {{<issue 22767>}}
* Fixes column drop cascading when dependent objects are dropped. {{<issue 22874>}}
* Enhances YSQL version upgrade process by refining master branch coding. {{<issue 23079>}}
* Adds flag to disable intent filtering during bootstrap to prevent data corruption. {{<issue 23184>}}
* Allows large byte requests on RateLimiter by breaking them into smaller chunks. {{<issue 23173>}}
* Restores the missing home icon in the master UI navigation bar. {{<issue 23275>}}
* Disables the `read-time` option in `ysql_dump` help to ensure correct DDL handling. {{<issue 23299>}}
* Enables `yb-admin` to correctly accept snapshot retention settings. {{<issue 23332>}}
* Resolves a build failure by removing unreachable code. {{<issue 23375>}}
* Renaming YSQL migration script from V60 to V59.1 ensures proper versioning and script ordering. {{<issue 24618>}}
* Fixes load balancer logic to correctly handle leader stepdown tasks. {{<issue 21834>}}
* Enhances system thread management for faster performance. {{<issue 21929>}}
* Deprecates the `enable_pg_savepoints` flag to prevent incorrect behaviors and enhance transaction reliability. {{<issue 29018>}}
* Prevents "schema version mismatch" errors after using DROP INDEX. {{<issue 22637>}}
* Ensures hidden split parent tablets are correctly represented as leaderless. {{<issue 21371>}}
* Ensures xCluster setup fails if the stream state update to `ACTIVE` fails. {{<issue 22601>}}
* Returns an empty response from `pg_replication_slots` when `ysql_yb_enable_replication_commands` is false. {{<issue 23096>}}
* Eliminates unnecessary warning logs about cluster configuration versions. {{<issue 23119>}}
* Prevents FATAL errors after multiple splits and PITR restores. {{<issue 25103>}}

#### CDC

* Prevents memory leaks in the `GetChanges` RPC by deleting its MemoryContext. {{<issue 22328>}}
* Adds more debug logs to `ListReplicationSlots` for better debugging of CDC state issues. {{<issue 21652>}}
* Prevents new indexes and materialized views from being added to existing CDC streams. {{<issue 22808>}}
* Prevents non-eligible tables from being added to CDC streams, reducing resource usage. {{<issue 22876>}},{{<issue 22835>}},{{<issue 22773>}}
* Introduces new flag `cdcsdk_enable_identification_of_non_eligible_tables` for automatic identification of non-eligible tables in CDC streams, eliminating the need for manual master restarts for cleanup control. {{<issue 22876>}},{{<issue 22835>}},{{<issue 22773>}}
* Ensures accurate server clock timestamps in logical replication XLogData. {{<issue 22929>}}
* Enhances accuracy of transaction start time logging for better consistency in CDC. {{<issue 24521>}}
* Fixes memory leaks in the walsender's handling of transactions and file nodes. {{<issue 24788>}}
* Enhances memory management in walsender by implementing deep freeing of record batches. {{<issue 21530>}}
* Adds debug logs in walsender for better issue investigation. {{<issue 21465>}}
* Reduces memory leaks in CDC streaming by managing record batches in a separate memory context. {{<issue 21530>}}
* Logs errors as warnings when cleaning up virtual WAL after logical replication ends. {{<issue 21651>}}
* Fixes directory creation for serialized transactions during replication. {{<issue 21765>}}
* Disables loading replication slots from disk on startup to prevent crashes. {{<issue 21841>}}
* Adds enhanced debug logs for easier CDC stress run troubleshooting. {{<issue 21780>}}
* Reduces unnecessary RPC calls for non-distributed transaction rollbacks. {{<issue 21519>}}
* Enhances restart LSN calculation accuracy by updating transaction tracking logic. {{<issue 21950>}}
* Removes `table_name` and `table_id` attributes from CDCSDK metrics to prevent TServer crashes. {{<issue 22142>}}
* Fixes segmentation faults in walsender by updating replica identities for dynamically added tables. {{<issue 22273>}}
* Ensures omitted values in logical replication are preserved by serializing the `yb_is_omitted` array. {{<issue 21946>}}
* Fixes premature tablet exclusion in CDC streams based on timeout settings. {{<issue 22383>}}
* Fixes a race condition in CDC dynamic table creation by checking tablet initialization. {{<issue 22408>}}
* Fixes incorrect removal of the `BEGIN` record in CDC streams when no DML changes occur. {{<issue 21646>}}
* Eliminates startup issues by always using the record's commit time for Walsender operations. {{<issue 22398>}}
* Adds support for CDC with dynamic OID data types like hstore and enum arrays. {{<issue 23179>}}
* Clears cached schema on re-fetch to ensure correct DDL records delivery. {{<issue 20698>}}

</details>
