docs/content/stable/deploy/multi-dc/async-replication/async-replication-transactional.md, before:

---
title: Deploy to two universes with transactional xCluster replication
headerTitle: Transactional xCluster deployment
linkTitle: Transactional xCluster
description: Enable deployment using transactional (active-standby) replication between universes
headContent: Transactional (active-standby) replication
menu:
  stable:
    parent: async-replication
    identifier: async-replication-transactional
    weight: 20
type: docs
---

A transactional xCluster deployment preserves and guarantees transactional atomicity and global ordering when propagating change data from one universe to another, as follows:

- Transactional atomicity guarantee. A transaction spanning tablets A and B will either be fully readable or not readable at all on the target universe. A and B can be tablets in the same table OR a table and an index OR different tables.

- Global ordering guarantee. Transactions are visible on the target side in the order they were committed on source.

Due to the asynchronous nature of xCluster replication, this deployment comes with non-zero recovery point objective (RPO) in the case of a source universe outage. The actual value depends on the replication lag, which in turn depends on the network characteristics between the regions.

The recovery time objective (RTO) is very low, as it only depends on the applications switching their connections from one universe to another. Applications should be designed in such a way that the switch happens as quickly as possible.

Transactional xCluster support further allows for the role of each universe to switch during planned and unplanned failover scenarios.

The xCluster role is a property with values ACTIVE or STANDBY that determines and identifies the Primary (source) and Standby (target) universes:

- ACTIVE: The active universe serves both reads & writes. Reads/writes happen as of the latest time and according to the chosen isolation levels.
- STANDBY: The standby universe is meant for reads only. Reads happen as of xCluster safe time for the given database.

xCluster safe time is the transactionally consistent time across all tables in a given database at which Reads are served. In the following illustration, T1 is a transactionally consistent time across all tables.

![Transactional xCluster](/images/deploy/xcluster/xcluster-transactional.png)

## Limitations

- Supports only Active-Standby setups with transactional atomicity and global ordering.
- Transactional consistency is currently not supported for YCQL, only for YSQL.

## Best practices

- Keep CPU use below 65%.
- Keep disk space use under 65%.

## Prerequisites

- Create Primary and Standby universes with TLS enabled.

- Set the YB-TServer [log_min_seconds_to_retain](../../../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#log-min-seconds-to-retain) to 86400 on both Primary and Standby.

    This flag determines the duration for which WAL is retained on the Primary universe in case of a network partition or a complete outage of the Standby universe. Be sure to allocate enough disk space to hold WAL generated for this duration.

    The value depends on how long a network partition or standby cluster outage can be tolerated, and the amount of WAL expected to be generated during that period.

Commit message:

[BACKPORT pg15-cherrypicks] all: Bulk port from master - 92
Summary:
 f8049b897a [doc][xcluster][2024.1.2] Semi-automatic transactional xCluster (#23710)
 f2c84706c9 [docs][yugabyted][2024.1.2] Add Read Replica and xCluster examples (#23289)
 ea3157c237 [doc][yba][2024.1.2] Export database audit logs (#23605)
 Excluded: 8bae4881dc [#18822] YSQL: Write out unmodified cols to main table when update optimizations are enabled
 5012632f86 [PLAT-15152] Upgrade YBC client and server version to 2.2.0.0-b5
 cccb1e10e4 Fix YCQL index table workflow in docs (#23774)
 9a3f5f7896 [PLAT-15028] yba installer simplify postgres initdb
 a2b5e7243e [docs] Release notes for 2024.1.2.0 (#23679)
 9a9690d4f2 Fix 2024.1.2 build number (#23779)
 aec361bad8 [doc] Voyager 1.8 (#23764)
 a2540e077f [DEVOPS-3185, DEVOPS-3114] Bump up frozen pip modules to latest versions compatible with py3.8
 88f23ddf03 [docs] [xcluster] Add min version for semi-automatic mode (#23776)
 1d61e6716c Revise the entire assessment page (#23784)
 142c04a4ac [PLAT-15089] HA sync immediately after promotion
 315110f96f [PLAT-15132][PLAT-15153] Allow users to configure logging level for YNP, also minor bug fixes
 82ff8d1396 [PLAT-6779] Handle relative paths in yb_platform_backup.sh
 Excluded: 45c9cf8b59 [#23263] YSQL, ASH: Instrument more wait states
 Excluded: 9f8acff298 [#22148] YSQL, QueryDiagnostics:  Adding support for Ash data.
 39670e8d26 download links (#23790)
 2674a79fa7 [#23780] YSQL: Modify catalog version mismatch test assertions with Connection Manager enabled
 3eb31b872f [#23777] yugabyted: update the gflags of pg parity to remove sized based fetching and add bitmap scans.
 fc5accd907 [docs] Enclose `allowed_preview_flags_csv` CSV parameters in brackets (#23758)

Test Plan: Jenkins: rebase: pg15-cherrypicks

Reviewers: jason, tfoucher

Differential Revision: https://phorge.dev.yugabyte.com/D37772

docs/content/stable/deploy/multi-dc/async-replication/async-replication-transactional.md, after:

---
title: Deploy to two universes with transactional xCluster replication
headerTitle: Transactional xCluster deployment
linkTitle: Transactional xCluster
description: Enable deployment using transactional (active-standby) replication between universes
headContent: Transactional (active-standby) replication
menu:
  stable:
    parent: async-replication
    identifier: async-replication-transactional
    weight: 20
badges: ysql
type: docs
---

A transactional xCluster deployment preserves and guarantees transactional atomicity and global ordering when propagating change data from one universe to another, as follows:

- Transactional atomicity guarantee. A transaction spanning tablets A and B will either be fully readable or not readable at all on the target universe. A and B can be tablets in the same table OR a table and an index OR different tables.

- Global ordering guarantee. Transactions are visible on the target side in the order they were committed on source.

Due to the asynchronous nature of xCluster replication, this deployment comes with non-zero recovery point objective (RPO) in the case of a source universe outage. The actual value depends on the replication lag, which in turn depends on the network characteristics between the regions.

The recovery time objective (RTO) is very low, as it only depends on the applications switching their connections from one universe to another. Applications should be designed in such a way that the switch happens as quickly as possible.

Transactional xCluster support further allows for the role of each universe to switch during planned and unplanned failover scenarios.

xCluster safe time is the transactionally consistent time across all tables in a given database at which Reads are served. In the following illustration, T1 is a transactionally consistent time across all tables.

![Transactional xCluster](/images/deploy/xcluster/xcluster-transactional.png)

## Setup

Transactional xCluster can be set up in the following ways:

- [Manual mode](../async-transactional-setup/).
- [Semi-automatic mode](../async-transactional-setup-dblevel/), providing operationally simpler setup and management of replication, as well as simpler steps for performing DDL changes.

## Limitations

- Supports only Active-Standby setups with transactional atomicity and global ordering.
- Transactional consistency is currently not supported for YCQL, only for YSQL.

## Best practices

- Keep CPU use below 65%.
- Keep disk space use under 65%.

## Prerequisites

- Create Primary and Standby universes with TLS enabled.

- Set the YB-TServer [log_min_seconds_to_retain](../../../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#log-min-seconds-to-retain) to 86400 on both Primary and Standby.

    This flag determines the duration for which WAL is retained on the Primary universe in case of a network partition or a complete outage of the Standby universe. Be sure to allocate enough disk space to hold WAL generated for this duration.

    The value depends on how long a network partition or standby cluster outage can be tolerated, and the amount of WAL expected to be generated during that period.
