docs/content/preview/contribute/core-database/build-from-src-ubuntu.md, before:

---
title: Build from source code on Ubuntu
headerTitle: Build the source code
linkTitle: Build the source
description: Build YugabyteDB from source code on Ubuntu.
image: /images/section_icons/index/quick_start.png
headcontent: Build the source code.
menu:
  preview:
    identifier: build-from-src-4-ubuntu
    parent: core-database
    weight: 2912
type: docs
---

<ul class="nav nav-tabs-alt nav-tabs-yb">

  <li >
    <a href="{{< relref "./build-from-src-almalinux.md" >}}" class="nav-link">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-linux" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      AlmaLinux
    </a>
  </li>

  <li >
    <a href="{{< relref "./build-from-src-macos.md" >}}" class="nav-link">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-apple" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      macOS
    </a>
  </li>

  <li >
    <a href="{{< relref "./build-from-src-centos.md" >}}" class="nav-link">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-linux" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      CentOS
    </a>
  </li>

  <li >
    <a href="{{< relref "./build-from-src-ubuntu.md" >}}" class="nav-link active">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-linux" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      Ubuntu
    </a>
  </li>

</ul>

{{< note title="Note" >}}

AlmaLinux 8 is the recommended Linux development platform for YugabyteDB.

{{< /note >}}

The following instructions are for Ubuntu 20.04 or Ubuntu 22.04.

## Install necessary packages

Update and install basic development packages as follows:

```sh
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade -y
packages=(
  autoconf
  bison
  build-essential
  cmake
  curl
  git
  libtool
  locales
  ninja-build
  patchelf
  pkg-config
  python3
  python3-venv
  rsync
  unzip
)
sudo apt install -y "${packages[@]}"
sudo locale-gen en_US.UTF-8
```

### /opt/yb-build

{{% readfile "includes/opt-yb-build.md" %}}

### Python 3

{{% readfile "includes/python.md" %}}

```sh
sudo apt install -y libffi-dev python3 python3-dev python3-venv
```

### CMake 3

{{% readfile "includes/cmake.md" %}}

The CMake version in the package manager is too old (3.16), so manually download a release as follows:

```sh
mkdir ~/tools
curl -L "https://github.com/Kitware/CMake/releases/download/v3.25.2/cmake-3.25.2-linux-x86_64.tar.gz" | tar xzC ~/tools
# Also add the following line to your .bashrc or equivalent.
export PATH="$HOME/tools/cmake-3.25.2-linux-x86_64/bin:$PATH"
```

### Java

{{% readfile "includes/java.md" %}}

Install the following package to satisfy the preceding requirements:

```sh
sudo apt install -y maven
```

### yugabyted-ui

{{% readfile "includes/yugabyted-ui.md" %}}

```sh
sudo apt install -y npm golang-1.18
# Also add the following line to your .bashrc or equivalent.
export PATH="/usr/lib/go-1.18/bin:$PATH"
```

### Ninja (optional)

{{% readfile "includes/ninja.md" %}}

```sh
sudo apt install -y ninja-build
```

### Ccache (optional)

{{% readfile "includes/ccache.md" %}}

```sh
sudo apt install -y ccache
# Also add the following line to your .bashrc or equivalent.
export YB_CCACHE_DIR="$HOME/.cache/yb_ccache"
```

## Build the code

{{% readfile "includes/build-the-code.md" %}}

### Build release package (optional)

Perform the following steps to build a release package:

1. [Satisfy requirements for building yugabyted-ui](#yugabyted-ui).
1. Install additional packages using the following command:

   ```sh
   sudo apt install -y file patchelf
   ```

1. Run the `yb_release` script using the following command:

   ```sh
   ./yb_release
   ```

   ```output.sh
   ......
   2023-02-17 01:26:37,156 [yb_release.py:299 INFO] Generated a package at '/home/user/code/yugabyte-db/build/yugabyte-2.17.2.0-ede2a2619ea8470064a5a2c0d7fa510dbee3ce81-release-clang15-ubuntu20-x86_64.tar.gz'
   ```

{{% readfile "includes/ulimit.md" %}}

Commit message:

[docs] Fix ubuntu contributor instructions (#19941)
Ubuntu contributor instructions were incorrectly changed by commit
a6a0f8d52b3fbf7ecdfce49ba2140969416928a1:

- gettext package was removed from instructions.  It is needed by
  Ubuntu 20.04 (and possibly others).
- Unnecessary packages were added to the instructions, some of which are
  duplicates because they show up again later in the page.

Revert those changes to the file.

Also notice that ninja-build package is duplicated in the top section
and "Ninja (optional)" section, so remove it from the top section.  And
update instructions to officially support 23.04.

Validate the instructions using ubuntu:23.04 docker image:

    # Perform minimal steps plus install ninja-build, then...
    ./yb_build.sh release --clang17
    sudo apt install file patchelf
    ./yb_release --no_yugabyted_ui --build_args=--clang17
    ./yb_release --no_yugabyted_ui --build_args='debug --clang17'
    ./yb_release --no_yugabyted_ui --build_args='debug --clang17 --make'
    ./yb_release --no_yugabyted_ui --build_args='release --gcc13'
    sudo apt install -y npm golang-1.20
    export PATH="/usr/lib/go-1.20/bin:$PATH"
    ./yb_release --build_args='release --gcc13'
    ./yb_build.sh fastdebug --gcc13 && exit 1 # issue #19961
    ./yb_build.sh fastdebug --clang17

docs/content/preview/contribute/core-database/build-from-src-ubuntu.md, after:

---
title: Build from source code on Ubuntu
headerTitle: Build the source code
linkTitle: Build the source
description: Build YugabyteDB from source code on Ubuntu.
image: /images/section_icons/index/quick_start.png
headcontent: Build the source code.
menu:
  preview:
    identifier: build-from-src-4-ubuntu
    parent: core-database
    weight: 2912
type: docs
---

<ul class="nav nav-tabs-alt nav-tabs-yb">

  <li >
    <a href="{{< relref "./build-from-src-almalinux.md" >}}" class="nav-link">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-linux" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      AlmaLinux
    </a>
  </li>

  <li >
    <a href="{{< relref "./build-from-src-macos.md" >}}" class="nav-link">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-apple" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      macOS
    </a>
  </li>

  <li >
    <a href="{{< relref "./build-from-src-centos.md" >}}" class="nav-link">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-linux" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      CentOS
    </a>
  </li>

  <li >
    <a href="{{< relref "./build-from-src-ubuntu.md" >}}" class="nav-link active">
      <i class="fa-brands fa-linux" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      Ubuntu
    </a>
  </li>

</ul>

{{< note title="Note" >}}

AlmaLinux 8 is the recommended Linux development platform for YugabyteDB.

{{< /note >}}

The following instructions are for Ubuntu 20.04, 22.04, and 23.04.

## Install necessary packages

Update and install basic development packages as follows:

```sh
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade -y
packages=(
  autoconf
  build-essential
  curl
  gettext
  git
  locales
  pkg-config
  rsync
)
sudo apt install -y "${packages[@]}"
sudo locale-gen en_US.UTF-8
```

### /opt/yb-build

{{% readfile "includes/opt-yb-build.md" %}}

### Python 3

{{% readfile "includes/python.md" %}}

```sh
sudo apt install -y libffi-dev python3 python3-dev python3-venv
```

### CMake 3

{{% readfile "includes/cmake.md" %}}

The CMake version in the package manager is too old (3.16), so manually download a release as follows:

```sh
mkdir ~/tools
curl -L "https://github.com/Kitware/CMake/releases/download/v3.25.2/cmake-3.25.2-linux-x86_64.tar.gz" | tar xzC ~/tools
# Also add the following line to your .bashrc or equivalent.
export PATH="$HOME/tools/cmake-3.25.2-linux-x86_64/bin:$PATH"
```

### Java

{{% readfile "includes/java.md" %}}

Install the following package to satisfy the preceding requirements:

```sh
sudo apt install -y maven
```

### yugabyted-ui

{{% readfile "includes/yugabyted-ui.md" %}}

```sh
sudo apt install -y npm golang-1.18
# Also add the following line to your .bashrc or equivalent.
export PATH="/usr/lib/go-1.18/bin:$PATH"
```

For Ubuntu 23.04, install `golang-1.20` instead since 1.18 is not available.

### Ninja (optional)

{{% readfile "includes/ninja.md" %}}

```sh
sudo apt install -y ninja-build
```

### Ccache (optional)

{{% readfile "includes/ccache.md" %}}

```sh
sudo apt install -y ccache
# Also add the following line to your .bashrc or equivalent.
export YB_CCACHE_DIR="$HOME/.cache/yb_ccache"
```

### GCC (optional)

To compile with GCC, install the following packages, and adjust the version numbers to match the GCC version you plan to use.

```sh
sudo apt install -y gcc-13 g++-13
```

## Build the code

{{% readfile "includes/build-the-code.md" %}}

{{< note title="Note" >}}

For Ubuntu 23.04, in order to use [downloaded third-party](#opt-yb-build), there are some additional restrictions:

- build type: `debug`, `fastdebug`, or `release`
- compiler: `--clang17` or `--gcc13`

{{< /note >}}

### Build release package (optional)

Perform the following steps to build a release package:

1. [Satisfy requirements for building yugabyted-ui](#yugabyted-ui).
1. Install additional packages using the following command:

   ```sh
   sudo apt install -y file patchelf
   ```

1. Run the `yb_release` script using the following command:

   ```sh
   ./yb_release
   ```

   ```output.sh
   ......
   2023-02-17 01:26:37,156 [yb_release.py:299 INFO] Generated a package at '/home/user/code/yugabyte-db/build/yugabyte-2.17.2.0-ede2a2619ea8470064a5a2c0d7fa510dbee3ce81-release-clang15-ubuntu20-x86_64.tar.gz'
   ```

{{% readfile "includes/ulimit.md" %}}
