docs/content/preview/launch-and-manage/monitor-and-alert/metrics/ybmaster.md, before:

---
title: YB-Master metrics
headerTitle: YB-Master metrics
linkTitle: YB-Master metrics
headcontent: Monitor table and tablet operations
description: Learn about YugabyteDB's YB-Master metrics, and how to select and use the metrics.
menu:
  preview:
    identifier: yb-master-metrics
    parent: metrics-overview
    weight: 140
type: docs
---

The [YB-Master](../../../../architecture/yb-master/) hosts system metadata, records about tables in the system and locations of their tablets, users, roles, permissions, and so on. YB-Masters are also responsible for coordinating background operations such as schema changes, handling addition and removal of nodes from the cluster, automatic re-replication of data on permanent failures, and so on.

All handler latency metrics include additional attributes. Refer to [Throughput and latency](../throughput/).

The following are key metrics for evaluating YB-Master performance. All metrics are counters and units are microseconds.

| Metric (Counter \| microseconds) | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| `handler_latency_yb_master_MasterClient_GetTabletLocations` | Time spent on fetching the replicas from the master servers. This metric includes the number of times the locations of the replicas are fetched from the master server.
| `handler_latency_yb_tserver_TabletServerService_Read` | Time to read the PostgreSQL system tables (during DDL). This metric includes the count or number of reads.
| `handler_latency_yb_tserver_TabletServerService_Write` | Time to write the PostgreSQL system tables (during DDL). This metric includes the count or number of writes.
| `handler_latency_yb_master_MasterDdl_CreateTable` | Time to create a table (during DDL). This metric includes the count of create table operations.
| `handler_latency_yb_master_MasterDdl_DeleteTable` | Time to delete a table (during DDL). This metric includes the count of delete table operations.

<!-- | Metrics | Unit | Type | Description |
| :------ | :--- | :--- | :---------- |
| `handler_latency_yb_master_MasterClient_GetTabletLocations` | The number of microseconds spent on fetching the replicas from the master servers. This metric includes the number of times the locations of the replicas are fetched from the master server. |
| `handler_latency_yb_tserver_TabletServerService_Read` | The time in microseconds to read the PostgreSQL system tables (during DDL). This metric includes the count or number of reads. |
| `handler_latency_yb_tserver_TabletServerService_Write` | The time in microseconds to write the PostgreSQL system tables (during DDL). This metric includes the count or number of writes. |
| `handler_latency_yb_master_MasterDdl_CreateTable` | The time in microseconds to create a table (during DDL). This metric includes the count of create table operations.|
| `handler_latency_yb_master_MasterDdl_DeleteTable` | The time in microseconds to delete a table (during DDL). This metric includes the count of delete table operations.| -->

These metrics can be aggregated for nodes across the entire cluster using appropriate aggregations.

Commit message:

[BACKPORT pg15-cherrypicks] all: Bulk port from master - 67
Summary:
 944bd874a9 [#23308] DocDB: Do not show InvalidFlags in flags UI
 3c5c40a249 [DOC-328] [2024.1.1] Change data capture (CDC) Observability in YugabyteDB Anywhere (#22733)
 eb39516a2f [DOC-397] [2024.1.1] Create provider validation (#23039)
 e948deeb95 [#DOC-348] Documentation for Migration Assessment in yugabyted UI. (#23288)
 80835a8495 [#23230] [DB Clone][YSQL]: Fix Cloning to a time before drop table in case of colocated databases
 57e930e2f9 [docs] 404 fixes for July 5-19 (#23277)
 e166cee855 [PLAT-13956]: Fix RBAC test failure
 7e10e9fe87 [WIP][docs] Documentation for logical replication with PG connector (#23065)
 86c4e4c516 [doc][2024.1.1] yb shell client download (#23170)
 a03ccda6ba [#23045] DocDB: Support for table locks using tserver local object lock manager
 836345ce56 [doc][yba][2024.1.1] Kubernetes Prometheus (#23097)
 c842e1d7a1 [PLAT-14750]: Add runtime config to show the Premium V2 Storage type in case of Azure during Create/Edit scenario
 b0392f3a79 [PLAT-14734]: Highlight Decommission node status to indicate node is in bad or unhealthy state
 307e2fce82 Fix the UT pipeline for local provider
 e0ff600f4e [PLAT-14696] DDL atomicity check metric and alert1
 f229cc648b [PLAT-14739]: Make xCluster sync lock per config uuid

Test Plan: Jenkins: rebase: pg15-cherrypicks

Reviewers: jason, tfoucher

Tags: #jenkins-ready

Differential Revision: https://phorge.dev.yugabyte.com/D36955

docs/content/preview/launch-and-manage/monitor-and-alert/metrics/ybmaster.md, after:

---
title: YB-Master metrics
headerTitle: YB-Master metrics
linkTitle: YB-Master metrics
headcontent: Monitor table and tablet operations
description: Learn about YugabyteDB's YB-Master metrics, and how to select and use the metrics.
aliases:
  - /launch-and-manage/monitor-and-alert/metrics/ybmaster/
menu:
  preview:
    identifier: yb-master-metrics
    parent: metrics-overview
    weight: 140
type: docs
---

The [YB-Master](../../../../architecture/yb-master/) hosts system metadata, records about tables in the system and locations of their tablets, users, roles, permissions, and so on. YB-Masters are also responsible for coordinating background operations such as schema changes, handling addition and removal of nodes from the cluster, automatic re-replication of data on permanent failures, and so on.

All handler latency metrics include additional attributes. Refer to [Throughput and latency](../throughput/).

The following are key metrics for evaluating YB-Master performance. All metrics are counters and units are microseconds.

| Metric (Counter \| microseconds) | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| `handler_latency_yb_master_MasterClient_GetTabletLocations` | Time spent on fetching the replicas from the master servers. This metric includes the number of times the locations of the replicas are fetched from the master server.
| `handler_latency_yb_tserver_TabletServerService_Read` | Time to read the PostgreSQL system tables (during DDL). This metric includes the count or number of reads.
| `handler_latency_yb_tserver_TabletServerService_Write` | Time to write the PostgreSQL system tables (during DDL). This metric includes the count or number of writes.
| `handler_latency_yb_master_MasterDdl_CreateTable` | Time to create a table (during DDL). This metric includes the count of create table operations.
| `handler_latency_yb_master_MasterDdl_DeleteTable` | Time to delete a table (during DDL). This metric includes the count of delete table operations.

<!-- | Metrics | Unit | Type | Description |
| :------ | :--- | :--- | :---------- |
| `handler_latency_yb_master_MasterClient_GetTabletLocations` | The number of microseconds spent on fetching the replicas from the master servers. This metric includes the number of times the locations of the replicas are fetched from the master server. |
| `handler_latency_yb_tserver_TabletServerService_Read` | The time in microseconds to read the PostgreSQL system tables (during DDL). This metric includes the count or number of reads. |
| `handler_latency_yb_tserver_TabletServerService_Write` | The time in microseconds to write the PostgreSQL system tables (during DDL). This metric includes the count or number of writes. |
| `handler_latency_yb_master_MasterDdl_CreateTable` | The time in microseconds to create a table (during DDL). This metric includes the count of create table operations.|
| `handler_latency_yb_master_MasterDdl_DeleteTable` | The time in microseconds to delete a table (during DDL). This metric includes the count of delete table operations.| -->

These metrics can be aggregated for nodes across the entire cluster using appropriate aggregations.
