docs/content/v2.20/reference/configuration/operating-systems.md, before:

---
title: Operating system support
headerTitle: Operating system support
linkTitle: Operating systems
description: Operating systems supported by YugabyteDB and YugabyteDB Anywhere.
menu:
  v2.20:
    identifier: operating-systems
    parent: configuration
    weight: 3000
type: docs
---

## YugabyteDB

The following operating systems and architectures are supported for [deploying YugabyteDB](../../../deploy/manual-deployment/).

Unless otherwise noted, operating systems are supported by all supported versions of YugabyteDB and YugabyteDB Anywhere. YugabyteDB Anywhere added support for deploying YugabyteDB to ARM-based systems for non-Kubernetes platforms in v2.18.

| Operating system | x86            | ARM            | Notes |
| :--------------- | :------------- | :------------- | :---- |
| AlmaLinux 8      | {{<icon/yes>}} | {{<icon/yes>}} | Recommended for production<br>Recommended development platform<br>Default for YBA-deployed nodes |
| AlmaLinux 9      | {{<icon/yes>}} | {{<icon/yes>}} |       |
| Amazon Linux 2   | {{<icon/partial>}} | {{<icon/partial>}} |Supported in v2.18.0 and later<br>Deprecated in v2.20; not supported in v2.21 and [upcoming release series](/preview/releases/#upcoming-release-series) |
| Amazon Linux 2<br>(ARM, CIS-hardened) |  | {{<icon/yes>}} | Supported only in v2.20.x. Database performance in this environment varies both due to CIS-hardening and ARM. For more information, contact {{% support-general %}}.|
| CentOS 7          | {{<icon/partial>}} |                | Deprecated in v2.20; not supported in v2.21 and [upcoming release series](/preview/releases/#upcoming-release-series) |
| Oracle 7         | {{<icon/yes>}} |                | |
| Oracle 8         | {{<icon/yes>}} |                | |
| Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7 | {{<icon/yes>}} |      |       |
| Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8 | {{<icon/yes>}} |      | Recommended for production |
| Red Hat Enterprise Linux&nbsp;9.3 | {{<icon/yes>}} |  | Supported in v2.20.3 and later.  {{<badge/ea>}} |
| SUSE&nbsp;Linux&nbsp;Enterprise&nbsp;Server&nbsp;15&nbsp;SP5 | {{<icon/yes>}} |     | {{<badge/ea>}} |
| Ubuntu 18        | {{<icon/partial>}} | {{<icon/partial>}} | Deprecated in v2.20; not supported in v2.21 and [upcoming release series](/preview/releases/#upcoming-release-series) |
| Ubuntu 20        | {{<icon/yes>}} | {{<icon/yes>}} |       |
| Ubuntu 22        | {{<icon/yes>}} | {{<icon/yes>}} | Supported in v2.18.5, v2.20.1 |

Commit message:

[BACKPORT pg15-cherrypicks] all: Bulk port from master - 72
Summary:
 a2dfb8c767 [PLAT-14119][PLAT-14591][PLAT-14824][PLAT-14849][PLAT-14725][PLAT-14747] : Audit Log and PG Compatibility fixes and improvements
 927a0f918a [DOC-435] Split supported versus unsupported OSs into two tables. (#23372)
 ef6297224e [PLAT-14034][PLAT-14762] Support TLS for db scoped replication
 Excluded: 34f9741b74 [#23114] YSQL: Implement ALTER TABLE.. SET SCHEMA..
 15149f2357 [#23401] YSQL: Graceful error if syscache is accessed in DocDB
 b4fd3fc4d0 [PLAT-14822] [Retryability]fault injection tests for smartResize are failing
 e0629f34e3 [#23404] docdb: Fix test PgsqlAddColumnCompactWithPackedRow failing on ASAN
 1d1780c849 [#23414] xCluster: Convert enable_xcluster_api_v2 to an AutoFlag
 95317f9f25 [PLAT-13373] Use latest YBC for universe tasks that install YBC
 Excluded: 44486bcbaa [#20997] YSQL, ASH: New wait event for the ASH collector
 dc04092698 [Docs] Small Improvements (#23395)
 manually excluded: 9df2d82b70 [#15665] YSQL: Trigger ANALYZE of PG auto analyze service
 7c338c3175 [PLAT-14839]rename v2 group mapping models and add creation time
 de504ed202 [#21510] YSQL: Fix the unit test testSeekNextEstimationIndexScan which is failing during Connection Manager
 4cb5e0dd8b [PLAT-14861][PLAT-14862] - fix : Disaster recovery ui issues
 de8a50a697 [PLAT-14247]Support restore to Point in time part 1 - Universe changes with schedule creation/edit/delete
 128afe7c4d [#21202] YSQL: Merge Connection Manager logs with Java UT logs
 4b479fa077 [PLAT-13843] Upgrade requests library

Test Plan: Jenkins: rebase: pg15-cherrypicks

Reviewers: jason, tfoucher

Tags: #jenkins-ready

Differential Revision: https://phorge.dev.yugabyte.com/D37134

docs/content/v2.20/reference/configuration/operating-systems.md, after:

---
title: Operating system support
headerTitle: Operating system support
linkTitle: Operating systems
description: Operating systems supported by YugabyteDB and YugabyteDB Anywhere.
menu:
  v2.20:
    identifier: operating-systems
    parent: configuration
    weight: 3000
type: docs
---

## YugabyteDB

The following table describes the operating system and architecture support for [deploying YugabyteDB](../../../deploy/manual-deployment/).

Unless otherwise noted, operating systems are supported by all supported versions of YugabyteDB and YugabyteDB Anywhere. YugabyteDB Anywhere added support for deploying YugabyteDB to ARM-based systems for non-Kubernetes platforms in v2.18.

| Operating system | x86            | ARM            | Notes |
| :--------------- | :------------- | :------------- | :---- |
| AlmaLinux 8      | {{<icon/yes>}} | {{<icon/yes>}} | Recommended for production<br>Recommended development platform<br>Default for YBA-deployed nodes |
| AlmaLinux 9      | {{<icon/yes>}} | {{<icon/yes>}} |       |
| Amazon Linux 2   | {{<icon/partial>}} | {{<icon/partial>}} |Supported in v2.18.0 and later<br>Deprecated in v2.20; not supported in v2.21 and subsequent release series. |
| Amazon Linux 2<br>(ARM, CIS-hardened) |  | {{<icon/partial>}} | Supported only in v2.20.x. Database performance in this environment varies both due to CIS-hardening and ARM. For more information, contact {{% support-general %}}.|
| CentOS 7          | {{<icon/partial>}} |                | Deprecated in v2.20; not supported in v2.20.6, v2.21 and subsequent release series. |
| Oracle 7         | {{<icon/partial>}} |                | Deprecated in v2.20; not supported in v2.20.6, v2.21 and subsequent release series. |
| Oracle 8         | {{<icon/yes>}} |                | |
| Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7 | {{<icon/partial>}} |      | Deprecated in v2.20; not supported in v2.20.6, v2.21 and subsequent release series.|
| Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8 | {{<icon/yes>}} |      | Recommended for production |
| Red Hat Enterprise Linux&nbsp;9.3 | {{<icon/yes>}} |  | Supported in v2.20.3 and later.  {{<badge/ea>}} |
| SUSE&nbsp;Linux&nbsp;Enterprise&nbsp;Server&nbsp;15&nbsp;SP5 | {{<icon/yes>}} |     | {{<badge/ea>}} |
| Ubuntu 18        | {{<icon/partial>}} | {{<icon/partial>}} | Deprecated in v2.20; not supported in v2.21 and subsequent release series. |
| Ubuntu 20        | {{<icon/yes>}} | {{<icon/yes>}} |       |
| Ubuntu 22        | {{<icon/yes>}} | {{<icon/yes>}} | Supported in v2.18.5, v2.20.1 |
