docs/content/stable/deploy/kubernetes/single-zone/gke/statefulset-yaml-local-ssd.md, before:

---
title: Deploy on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) using YAML (local disk)
headerTitle: Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)
linkTitle: Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)
description: Deploy a single-zone YugabyteDB cluster on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) using YAML (local disk).
menu:
  stable:
    parent: deploy-kubernetes-sz
    name: Google Kubernetes Engine
    identifier: k8s-gke-3
    weight: 623
type: docs
---

<ul class="nav nav-tabs-alt nav-tabs-yb">
  <li >
    <a href="../helm-chart/" class="nav-link">
      <i class="fa-regular fa-dharmachakra" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      Helm Chart
    </a>
  </li>
  <li >
    <a href="../statefulset-yaml/" class="nav-link">
      <i class="fa-solid fa-cubes" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      YAML (remote disk)
    </a>
  </li>
   <li >
    <a href="../statefulset-yaml-local-ssd/" class="nav-link active">
      <i class="fa-solid fa-cubes" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      YAML (local disk)
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

## Prerequisites

- Download and install [Google Cloud SDK](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/downloads/). Note that if you install `gcloud` using a package manager (as opposed to downloading and installing it manually), some of the commands will not be supported.

- Install `kubectl`command line tool by running the following command:

  ```sh
  gcloud components install kubectl
  ```

- Configure defaults for `gcloud` by setting the project ID as `yugabyte`. You can change this as needed.

  ```sh
  gcloud config set project yugabyte
  ```

## Create a GKE cluster

Each cluster brings up three nodes each of the type `n1-standard-1` for the Kubernetes masters. You can directly create a cluster with the desired machine type using the `--machine-type` option. In the following example, you are going to create a node-pool with `n1-standard-8` type nodes for the YugabyteDB universe.

- Choose the zone in which you want to run the cluster. In this example, you are going to deploy the Kubernetes masters using the default machine type `n1-standard-1` in the zone `us-west1-a`, and add a node pool with the desired node type and node count in order to deploy the YugabyteDB universe. You can view the list of zones by running the following command:

  ```sh
  gcloud compute zones list
  ```

  ```output
  NAME                       REGION                   STATUS
  ...
  us-west1-b                 us-west1                 UP
  us-west1-c                 us-west1                 UP
  us-west1-a                 us-west1                 UP
  ...
  ```

- Create a Kubernetes cluster on GKE by running the following in order to create a cluster in the desired zone:

  ```sh
  gcloud container clusters create yugabyte --zone us-west1-b
  ```

- List the available cluster by running the following command:

  ```sh
  gcloud container clusters list
  ```

  ```output
  NAME      LOCATION    MASTER_VERSION  MASTER_IP       MACHINE_TYPE   NODE_VERSION  NUM_NODES  STATUS
  yugabyte  us-west1-b  1.8.7-gke.1     35.199.164.253  n1-standard-1  1.8.7-gke.1   3          RUNNING

  Created [https://container.googleapis.com/v1/projects/yugabyte/zones/us-west1-b/clusters/yugabyte].
  ```

## Create a node pool

Create a node pool with three nodes, each having eight CPUs and two local SSDs, as follows:

```sh
gcloud container node-pools create node-pool-8cpu-2ssd \
      --cluster=yugabyte \
      --local-ssd-count=2 \
      --machine-type=n1-standard-8 \
      --num-nodes=3 \
      --zone=us-west1-b
```

```output
Created
NAME                 MACHINE_TYPE   DISK_SIZE_GB  NODE_VERSION
node-pool-8cpu-2ssd  n1-standard-8  100           1.8.7-gke.1
```

The `--local-ssd-count` option instructs `gcloud` to mount the nodes with two local SSDs each.

You can list all the node pools by running the following command:

```sh
gcloud container node-pools list --cluster yugabyte --zone=us-west1-b
```

```output
NAME                 MACHINE_TYPE   DISK_SIZE_GB  NODE_VERSION
default-pool         n1-standard-1  100           1.8.7-gke.1
node-pool-8cpu-2ssd  n1-standard-8  100           1.8.7-gke.1
```

You can view details of the node-pool just created by running the following command:

```sh
gcloud container node-pools describe node-pool-8cpu-2ssd --cluster yugabyte --zone=us-west1-b
```

```output
config:
  diskSizeGb: 100
  imageType: COS
  localSsdCount: 2
  machineType: n1-standard-8
initialNodeCount: 3
name: node-pool-8cpu-2ssd
```

## Create a YugabyteDB universe

If this is your only container cluster, `kubectl` automatically points to this cluster. If you have multiple clusters, you should switch `kubectl` to point to this cluster by running the following command:

```sh
gcloud container clusters get-credentials yugabyte --zone us-west1-b
```

```output
Fetching cluster endpoint and auth data.
kubeconfig entry generated for yugabyte.
```

You can launch a universe on this node pool to run on local SSDs by running the following command:

```sh
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/master/cloud/kubernetes/yugabyte-statefulset-local-ssd-gke.yaml
```

```output
service "yb-masters" created
service "yb-master-ui" created
statefulset "yb-master" created
service "yb-tservers" created
statefulset "yb-tserver" created
```

You can see the [YAML file to launch a YugabyteDB kubernetes universe on nodes with local disks](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/blob/master/cloud/kubernetes/yugabyte-statefulset-local-ssd-gke.yaml).

The following `nodeSelector` snippet in the YAML file instructs the Kubernetes scheduler to place the YugabyteDB pods on nodes that have local disks:

```yaml
  nodeSelector:
    cloud.google.com/gke-local-ssd: "true"
```

Also note that you instruct the scheduler to place the various pods in the `yb-master` or `yb-tserver` services on different physical nodes with the `antiAffinity` hint:

```yaml
  spec:
    affinity:
      # Set the anti-affinity selector scope to YB masters.
      podAntiAffinity:
        preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
        - weight: 100
          podAffinityTerm:
            labelSelector:
              matchExpressions:
              - key: app
                operator: In
                values:
                - yb-master
            topologyKey: kubernetes.io/hostname
```

## View the universe

You can verify that the YugabyteDB pods are running by executing following command:

```sh
kubectl get pods
```

```output
NAME           READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
yb-master-0    1/1       Running   0          49s
yb-master-1    1/1       Running   0          49s
yb-master-2    1/1       Running   0          49s
yb-tserver-0   1/1       Running   0          48s
yb-tserver-1   1/1       Running   0          48s
yb-tserver-2   1/1       Running   0          48s
```

You can check all the services that are running by executing the following command:

```sh
kubectl get services
```

```output
NAME           TYPE           CLUSTER-IP    EXTERNAL-IP     PORT(S)                               AGE
kubernetes     ClusterIP      10.7.240.1    <none>          443/TCP                               11m
yb-master-ui   LoadBalancer   10.7.246.86   XX.XX.XX.XX     7000:30707/TCP                        1m
yb-masters     ClusterIP      None          <none>          7000/TCP,7100/TCP                     1m
yb-tservers    ClusterIP      None          <none>          9000/TCP,9100/TCP,9042/TCP,6379/TCP   1m
```

The `yb-master-ui` is a load balancer service which exposes the YugabyteDB universe UI. You can view this by browsing to the URL `http://XX.XX.XX.XX:7000`. It should look as follows:

![GKE YugabyteDB dashboard](/images/deploy/kubernetes/gke-kubernetes-dashboard.png)

## Connect to the universe

You can connect to one of the YB-TServer pods and verify that the local disk is mounted into the pods, as follows:

```sh
kubectl exec -it yb-tserver-0 -- bash
```

You can observe the local disks by running the following command:

```sh
[root@yb-tserver-0 yugabyte]# df -kh

Filesystem      Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
...
/dev/sdb        369G   70M  350G   1% /mnt/disk0
/dev/sdc        369G   69M  350G   1% /mnt/disk1
...
```

You can connect to the `ycqlsh` shell on this universe by running the following command:

```sh
kubectl exec -it yb-tserver-0 -- ycqlsh yb-tserver-0
```

```output.cql
Connected to local cluster at 127.0.0.1:9042.
[ycqlsh 5.0.1 | Cassandra 3.9-SNAPSHOT | CQL spec 3.4.2 | Native protocol v4]
Use HELP for help.
ycqlsh> DESCRIBE KEYSPACES;

system_schema  system_auth  system
```

## Destroy the cluster

You can destroy the YugabyteDB universe by running the following command:

```sh
kubectl delete -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/master/cloud/kubernetes/yugabyte-statefulset-local-ssd-gke.yaml
```

The preceding command does not destroy the data, and you may not be able to respawn the cluster because there is data left behind on the persistent disks.

You can destroy the node-pool you created by running the following command:

```sh
gcloud container node-pools delete node-pool-8cpu-2ssd --cluster yugabyte --zone=us-west1-b
```

Finally, you can destroy the entire `gcloud` container cluster by running the following command:

```sh
gcloud beta container clusters delete yugabyte --zone us-west1-b
```

Commit message:

[DOC-431] Added a note for GKE cluster docs (#23349)
* added a note message

* edits based on suggestions

* format

* copied to older versions

---------

Co-authored-by: Dwight Hodge <ghodge@yugabyte.com>

docs/content/stable/deploy/kubernetes/single-zone/gke/statefulset-yaml-local-ssd.md, after:

---
title: Deploy on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) using YAML (local disk)
headerTitle: Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)
linkTitle: Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)
description: Deploy a single-zone YugabyteDB cluster on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) using YAML (local disk).
menu:
  stable:
    parent: deploy-kubernetes-sz
    name: Google Kubernetes Engine
    identifier: k8s-gke-3
    weight: 623
type: docs
---

<ul class="nav nav-tabs-alt nav-tabs-yb">
  <li >
    <a href="../helm-chart/" class="nav-link">
      <i class="fa-regular fa-dharmachakra" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      Helm Chart
    </a>
  </li>
  <li >
    <a href="../statefulset-yaml/" class="nav-link">
      <i class="fa-solid fa-cubes" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      YAML (remote disk)
    </a>
  </li>
   <li >
    <a href="../statefulset-yaml-local-ssd/" class="nav-link active">
      <i class="fa-solid fa-cubes" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      YAML (local disk)
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

## Prerequisites

- Download and install [Google Cloud SDK](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/downloads/). Note that if you install `gcloud` using a package manager (as opposed to downloading and installing it manually), some of the commands will not be supported.

- Install `kubectl`command line tool by running the following command:

  ```sh
  gcloud components install kubectl
  ```

- Configure defaults for `gcloud` by setting the project ID as `yugabyte`. You can change this as needed.

  ```sh
  gcloud config set project yugabyte
  ```

## Create a GKE cluster

Each cluster brings up three nodes each of the type `n1-standard-1` for the Kubernetes masters. You can directly create a cluster with the desired machine type using the `--machine-type` option. In the following example, you are going to create a node-pool with `n1-standard-8` type nodes for the YugabyteDB universe.

- Choose the zone in which you want to run the cluster. In this example, you are going to deploy the Kubernetes masters using the default machine type `n1-standard-1` in the zone `us-west1-a`, and add a node pool with the desired node type and node count in order to deploy the YugabyteDB universe. You can view the list of zones by running the following command:

  ```sh
  gcloud compute zones list
  ```

  ```output
  NAME                       REGION                   STATUS
  ...
  us-west1-b                 us-west1                 UP
  us-west1-c                 us-west1                 UP
  us-west1-a                 us-west1                 UP
  ...
  ```

- Create a private Kubernetes cluster on GKE in the desired zone by running the following.

  ```sh
  gcloud container clusters create cluster_name --enable-private-nodes --zone us-west1-b
  ```

  Note that you must set up Cloud NAT for a private Kubernetes cluster in Google Cloud to ensure that your cluster can access the internet while its nodes do not have public IP addresses. Refer to [Configuring Private Google Access and Cloud NAT in Google Cloud Platform (GCP)](https://kloudkraft.medium.com/configuring-private-google-access-and-cloud-nat-in-google-cloud-platform-gcp-3c4406b590b3).

- List the available cluster by running the following command:

  ```sh
  gcloud container clusters list
  ```

  ```output
  NAME      LOCATION    MASTER_VERSION  MASTER_IP       MACHINE_TYPE   NODE_VERSION  NUM_NODES  STATUS
  yugabyte  us-west1-b  1.8.7-gke.1     35.199.164.253  n1-standard-1  1.8.7-gke.1   3          RUNNING

  Created [https://container.googleapis.com/v1/projects/yugabyte/zones/us-west1-b/clusters/yugabyte].
  ```

## Create a node pool

Create a node pool with three nodes, each having eight CPUs and two local SSDs, as follows:

```sh
gcloud container node-pools create node-pool-8cpu-2ssd \
      --cluster=yugabyte \
      --local-ssd-count=2 \
      --machine-type=n1-standard-8 \
      --num-nodes=3 \
      --zone=us-west1-b
```

```output
Created
NAME                 MACHINE_TYPE   DISK_SIZE_GB  NODE_VERSION
node-pool-8cpu-2ssd  n1-standard-8  100           1.8.7-gke.1
```

The `--local-ssd-count` option instructs `gcloud` to mount the nodes with two local SSDs each.

You can list all the node pools by running the following command:

```sh
gcloud container node-pools list --cluster yugabyte --zone=us-west1-b
```

```output
NAME                 MACHINE_TYPE   DISK_SIZE_GB  NODE_VERSION
default-pool         n1-standard-1  100           1.8.7-gke.1
node-pool-8cpu-2ssd  n1-standard-8  100           1.8.7-gke.1
```

You can view details of the node-pool just created by running the following command:

```sh
gcloud container node-pools describe node-pool-8cpu-2ssd --cluster yugabyte --zone=us-west1-b
```

```output
config:
  diskSizeGb: 100
  imageType: COS
  localSsdCount: 2
  machineType: n1-standard-8
initialNodeCount: 3
name: node-pool-8cpu-2ssd
```

## Create a YugabyteDB universe

If this is your only container cluster, `kubectl` automatically points to this cluster. If you have multiple clusters, you should switch `kubectl` to point to this cluster by running the following command:

```sh
gcloud container clusters get-credentials yugabyte --zone us-west1-b
```

```output
Fetching cluster endpoint and auth data.
kubeconfig entry generated for yugabyte.
```

You can launch a universe on this node pool to run on local SSDs by running the following command:

```sh
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/master/cloud/kubernetes/yugabyte-statefulset-local-ssd-gke.yaml
```

```output
service "yb-masters" created
service "yb-master-ui" created
statefulset "yb-master" created
service "yb-tservers" created
statefulset "yb-tserver" created
```

You can see the [YAML file to launch a YugabyteDB kubernetes universe on nodes with local disks](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/blob/master/cloud/kubernetes/yugabyte-statefulset-local-ssd-gke.yaml).

The following `nodeSelector` snippet in the YAML file instructs the Kubernetes scheduler to place the YugabyteDB pods on nodes that have local disks:

```yaml
  nodeSelector:
    cloud.google.com/gke-local-ssd: "true"
```

Also note that you instruct the scheduler to place the various pods in the `yb-master` or `yb-tserver` services on different physical nodes with the `antiAffinity` hint:

```yaml
  spec:
    affinity:
      # Set the anti-affinity selector scope to YB masters.
      podAntiAffinity:
        preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
        - weight: 100
          podAffinityTerm:
            labelSelector:
              matchExpressions:
              - key: app
                operator: In
                values:
                - yb-master
            topologyKey: kubernetes.io/hostname
```

## View the universe

You can verify that the YugabyteDB pods are running by executing following command:

```sh
kubectl get pods
```

```output
NAME           READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
yb-master-0    1/1       Running   0          49s
yb-master-1    1/1       Running   0          49s
yb-master-2    1/1       Running   0          49s
yb-tserver-0   1/1       Running   0          48s
yb-tserver-1   1/1       Running   0          48s
yb-tserver-2   1/1       Running   0          48s
```

You can check all the services that are running by executing the following command:

```sh
kubectl get services
```

```output
NAME           TYPE           CLUSTER-IP    EXTERNAL-IP     PORT(S)                               AGE
kubernetes     ClusterIP      10.7.240.1    <none>          443/TCP                               11m
yb-master-ui   LoadBalancer   10.7.246.86   XX.XX.XX.XX     7000:30707/TCP                        1m
yb-masters     ClusterIP      None          <none>          7000/TCP,7100/TCP                     1m
yb-tservers    ClusterIP      None          <none>          9000/TCP,9100/TCP,9042/TCP,6379/TCP   1m
```

The `yb-master-ui` is a load balancer service which exposes the YugabyteDB universe UI. You can view this by browsing to the URL `http://XX.XX.XX.XX:7000`. It should look as follows:

![GKE YugabyteDB dashboard](/images/deploy/kubernetes/gke-kubernetes-dashboard.png)

## Connect to the universe

You can connect to one of the YB-TServer pods and verify that the local disk is mounted into the pods, as follows:

```sh
kubectl exec -it yb-tserver-0 -- bash
```

You can observe the local disks by running the following command:

```sh
[root@yb-tserver-0 yugabyte]# df -kh

Filesystem      Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
...
/dev/sdb        369G   70M  350G   1% /mnt/disk0
/dev/sdc        369G   69M  350G   1% /mnt/disk1
...
```

You can connect to the `ycqlsh` shell on this universe by running the following command:

```sh
kubectl exec -it yb-tserver-0 -- ycqlsh yb-tserver-0
```

```output.cql
Connected to local cluster at 127.0.0.1:9042.
[ycqlsh 5.0.1 | Cassandra 3.9-SNAPSHOT | CQL spec 3.4.2 | Native protocol v4]
Use HELP for help.
ycqlsh> DESCRIBE KEYSPACES;

system_schema  system_auth  system
```

## Destroy the cluster

You can destroy the YugabyteDB universe by running the following command:

```sh
kubectl delete -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/master/cloud/kubernetes/yugabyte-statefulset-local-ssd-gke.yaml
```

The preceding command does not destroy the data, and you may not be able to respawn the cluster because there is data left behind on the persistent disks.

You can destroy the node-pool you created by running the following command:

```sh
gcloud container node-pools delete node-pool-8cpu-2ssd --cluster yugabyte --zone=us-west1-b
```

Finally, you can destroy the entire `gcloud` container cluster by running the following command:

```sh
gcloud beta container clusters delete yugabyte --zone us-west1-b
```
