docs/content/preview/yugabyte-platform/configure-yugabyte-platform/_index.md, before:

---
title: Configure YugabyteDB Anywhere
headerTitle: Configure YugabyteDB Anywhere
linkTitle: Configure
description: Configure YugabyteDB Anywhere.
image: /images/section_icons/deploy/manual-deployment.png
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-platform:
    parent: yugabytedb-anywhere
    identifier: configure-yugabyte-platform
    weight: 620
aliases:
  - /preview/yugabyte-platform/overview/configure/
  - /preview/yugabyte-platform/configure-yugabyte-platform/configure/
type: indexpage
---

After YugabytDB Anywhere (YBA) has been installed, the next step is to create provider configurations. A provider configuration comprises all the parameters needed to deploy a YugabyteDB universe on the corresponding provider. This includes cloud credentials, regions and zones, networking details, and more.

When deploying a universe, YBA uses the provider configuration settings to create and provision the nodes that will make up the universe.

{{<index/block>}}

  {{<index/item
    title="Node prerequisites"
    body="Operating systems and architectures supported by YBA for deploying YugabyteDB universes."
    href="supported-os-and-arch/"
    icon="/images/section_icons/deploy/manual-deployment.png">}}

  {{<index/item
    title="Create admin user"
    body="Admin user account registration and setup."
    href="create-admin-user/"
    icon="/images/section_icons/index/admin.png">}}

  {{<index/item
    title="Configure providers"
    body="Create provider configurations for deploying universes."
    href="set-up-cloud-provider/"
    icon="/images/section_icons/manage/enterprise/edit_universe.png">}}

  {{<index/item
    title="Configure alerts"
    body="Create health check and alerts for issues that may affect deployment."
    href="set-up-alerts-health-check/"
    icon="/images/section_icons/deploy/manual-deployment.png">}}

{{</index/block>}}

Commit message:

[doc][yba] Prerequisites reorganization (#21876)
* yba prepare section

* misc edits

* more edits

* overview page

* add more requirements

* more requirements

* more updates

* misc updates

* more updates

* misc edits

* minor fixes

* Update with latest changes

* Misc edits

* prepare landing page

* Update docs/content/preview/yugabyte-platform/prepare/_index.md

* menu order

* ear changes

* links and redirects

* review comments

* redirects and links

* links

* header links

* tidyups

* minor edit

* review comments

* review comments

* minor edit

* review comments

* format

* review comments

* review comments

* typo

* review comments

* review, format

* more fixes

* image

* comments

* format, edit

* minor edits

* intro format

* fix for Replication migration

* review comments

* minor edit

* fix links and delet unused files

* minor edits

* minor edit

docs/content/preview/yugabyte-platform/configure-yugabyte-platform/_index.md, after:

---
title: Create provider configurations
headerTitle: Create provider configurations
linkTitle: Create providers
description: Create provider configurations for deploying YugabyteDB universes.
image: fa-thin fa-folder-gear
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-platform:
    parent: yugabytedb-anywhere
    identifier: configure-yugabyte-platform
    weight: 620
aliases:
  - /preview/yugabyte-platform/overview/configure/
  - /preview/yugabyte-platform/configure-yugabyte-platform/set-up-cloud-provider/
type: indexpage
---

After installing YugabyteDB Anywhere (YBA), the next step is to create provider configurations.

A provider configuration describes your cloud environment (such as its security group, regions and availability zones, NTP server, SSH credentials for connecting to VMs for provisioning, the Linux disk image to be used for configuring the nodes, and so on). The provider configuration is used as an input when deploying a universe, and can be reused for many universes.

Before you can deploy universes using YBA, you must create a provider configuration.

| To deploy YugbayteDB universes to | Create provider |
| :--- | :--- |
| Private cloud<br>Bare metal, racks<br>Cloud provider (limited SSH permissions) | [On-premises](on-premises/) |
| Cloud provider (full SSH permissions) | [AWS](aws/)<br>[GCP](gcp/)<br>[Azure](azure/) |
| Kubernetes | [Kubernetes](kubernetes/)<br>[VMware Tanzu](vmware-tanzu/)<br>[OpenShift](openshift/) |

{{<index/block>}}

  {{<index/item
    title="On-premises"
    body="Create provider configurations for on-premises deployments."
    href="on-premises/"
    icon="fa-thin fa-building">}}

  {{<index/item
    title="Cloud"
    body="Create provider configurations for AWS, Azure, and GCP."
    href="aws/"
    icon="fa-thin fa-cloud">}}

  {{<index/item
    title="Kubernetes"
    body="Create provider configurations for Kubernetes, including VMWare Tanzu and OpenShift."
    href="kubernetes/"
    icon="fa-thin fa-dharmachakra">}}

{{</index/block>}}
