# Generating Documentation with Doxygen
You can install doxygen using the commands below or [Doxygen website](https://www.doxygen.nl/) to download executable file for Windows. 


- **Ubuntu**:  
  ```bash
  sudo apt-get install doxygen
  ```

- **macOS**:  
  ```bash
  brew install doxygen
  ```


To generate the documentation, run following in the under the `oss` folder:

```bash
doxygen Doxyfile
```

If you want to see logs, you can save them undera log file:

```bash
doxygen Doxyfile -d 2> doxygen_warnings.log
```

## Configuration Tips
Key settings in Doxyfile to be aware of:

- **`INPUT`**: Specifies which directories Doxygen will scan for files to document. Ensure this includes all directories with source files you want in the documentation.

- **`OUTPUT_DIRECTORY`**: Defines where Doxygen will save the generated documentation files. By default, this might be set to docs/html/.

- **`FILTER_PATTERNS`**: This setting allows you to apply specific filters to file types. For example, our configuration applies filter_sql.py to .sql files to enable custom parsing:

- **`HTML_FOOTER`** and **`HTML_HEADER`**: We can use these to add custom HTML headers and footers to each documentation page, which can include elements like a logo, navigation links, or project information.

- **`HTML_STYLESHEET`** and  **`HTML_EXTRA_STYLESHEET`**: We can specify our own CSS file with HTML_STYLESHEET to fully customize the look of the documentation. Alternatively, use HTML_EXTRA_STYLESHEET to add additional styles on top of the default styling.

- **`USE_MDFILE_AS_MAINPAGE`**: Set this to a specific Markdown file (e.g., README.md) if you’d like it to serve as the main page of the documentation.


## Viewing the Generated Documentation
Once Doxygen completes the generation process, you can find the output in the folder specified by `OUTPUT_DIRECTORY`, typically docs/html/. To view the documentation, locate the `index.html` file in `docs/html` directory. Open index.html in your web browser.


## Related files
- **`Doxyfile`**: Controls all settings for Doxygen, including input directories, output formats, and filters.
  
- **`docs/src/layout.xml`**: Customizes the layout of the generated Doxygen documentation. The base file is auto-generated by Doxygen and in our case, it is only used for defining the headlines of the pages.

- **`docs/src/group_definitions.dox`**: Defines groups in the documentation to organize related code. Currently, the directory name that contains the function is displayed as the group.

- **`docs/src/filter_sql.py`**: A filter script that preprocesses SQL files before Doxygen processes them, enabling custom parsing and schema name replacement. The filter is applied using the `FILTER_PATTERNS` option in the `Doxyfile`, which specifies that the script should run on `.sql` files.


```
FILTER_PATTERNS = *.sql="docs/src/filter_sql.py"
```

## Doxygen Commenting Guide

Doxygen comments start with `/**` and use tags like `@brief`, `@param`, and `@return` to define different components.

```cpp
/**
 * @brief Short summary of the function.
 * @details Longer description, can span multiple lines.
 * 
 * @param[in] paramName Description of the input parameter.
 * @param[out] outputParam Description of the output parameter.
 * @param[in,out] inOutParam Parameter used as both input and output.
 * @return Description of the return value.
 * @ingroup groupName 
 */
```

### Note

If you inspect the `filter_sql.py` file, you'll see that only comments in the `/** */` style are included, while other comment styles are ignored. This approach ensures that only the desired content is documented, helping Doxygen process everything correctly and avoiding issues during documentation generation.

### Common Tags

- **`@brief`**: Short summary of the function or method.
- **`@details`**: Longer explanation, if needed. It can span multiple lines.
- **`@param`**: Documents function parameters. Use **`[in]`** for input parameters, **`[out]`** for output parameters, or **`[in,out]`** for parameters that are both input and output.
- **`@return`**: Describes the return value of the function.
- **`@ingroup`**: Groups related functions for better organization.
- **`@warning`**: Warns users about specific issues with the function.
- **`@deprecated`**: Marks a function as deprecated.
- **`@note`**: Adds an additional note for context.
- **`@code` / `@endcode`**: Inserts a code example in the documentation.
- **`@todo`**: Highlights pending tasks or future improvements.
