docs/content/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-security/shared-responsibility.md, before:

---
title: Shared responsibility model
linkTitle: Shared responsibility model
description: Explore the the security shared responsiblity model of the YugabyteDB Managed database.
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-cloud:
    parent: cloud-security
    identifier: shared-responsibility
weight: 20
type: docs
---

YugabyteDB Managed security and compliance is a shared responsibility between public cloud providers, Yugabyte, and YugabyteDB Managed customers.

Under the shared responsibility model, there is a division of responsibility for the security aspects of YugabyteDB Managed, which includes but is not limited to network controls, data classification, application controls, identity and access management, and more. The responsibilities for each workload and feature depend on where the workload is hosted - Software as a Service (SaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), or on-premises in your own data center.

![Shared responsibility model](/images/yb-cloud/cloud-shared-responsibility.png)

You are responsible for reviewing YugabyteDB Managed security capabilities and features in accordance with your compliance and regulatory requirements to determine whether your data can be stored in YugabyteDB Managed. You are also responsible for the security, protection, and backup of your data as far as this is possible in the shared responsibility model, as well as for configuring YugabyteDB Managed security and product features to the extent that Yugabyte makes it possible.

Yugabyte leverages public cloud provider PaaS and SaaS offerings to deliver the YugabyteDB Managed service. Under the shared responsibility model, the public cloud providers are responsible for providing and protecting the infrastructure (the hardware, software, networking, and facilities) that runs the cloud services Yugabyte provides in YugabyteDB Managed. Configuration related to infrastructure managed and operated by the public cloud providers is generally not available for Yugabyte customers to audit or modify in YugabyteDB Managed.

Yugabyte implements the technical and organizational security measures as described in the [YugabyteDB Managed Data Processing Addendum (DPA)](https://www.yugabyte.com/yugabyte-cloud-data-processing-addendum/).

Commit message:

[doc][ybm] Changes for pricing plans #20900 (#22588)
* Changes for pricing plans

* costing page update for new pricing

* misc edits

* edits

* edit

* review comment

* review comment

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Aishwarya Chakravarthy  <achakravarthy@yugabyte.com>

* review comments

* Managed -> Aeon (cloud directories only)

* menus and shortcodes

* Stable: Managed -> Aeon

* v2.20: Managed -> Aeon

* fix typo

* Misc acronym fixes

* v2.18: Managed -> Aeon

* preview: Managed -> Aeon

* typos

* fix deep links

* purge stale links to corp site

* screenshot and billing edits

* review comments

---------

Co-authored-by: Aishwarya Chakravarthy <achakravarthy@yugabyte.com>

docs/content/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-security/shared-responsibility.md, after:

---
title: Shared responsibility model
linkTitle: Shared responsibility model
description: Explore the the security shared responsiblity model of the YugabyteDB Aeon database.
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-cloud:
    parent: cloud-security
    identifier: shared-responsibility
weight: 20
type: docs
---

YugabyteDB Aeon security and compliance is a shared responsibility between public cloud providers, Yugabyte, and YugabyteDB Aeon customers.

Under the shared responsibility model, there is a division of responsibility for the security aspects of YugabyteDB Aeon, which includes but is not limited to network controls, data classification, application controls, identity and access management, and more. The responsibilities for each workload and feature depend on where the workload is hosted - Software as a Service (SaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), or on-premises in your own data center.

![Shared responsibility model](/images/yb-cloud/cloud-shared-responsibility.png)

You are responsible for reviewing YugabyteDB Aeon security capabilities and features in accordance with your compliance and regulatory requirements to determine whether your data can be stored in YugabyteDB Aeon. You are also responsible for the security, protection, and backup of your data as far as this is possible in the shared responsibility model, as well as for configuring YugabyteDB Aeon security and product features to the extent that Yugabyte makes it possible.

Yugabyte leverages public cloud provider PaaS and SaaS offerings to deliver the YugabyteDB Aeon service. Under the shared responsibility model, the public cloud providers are responsible for providing and protecting the infrastructure (the hardware, software, networking, and facilities) that runs the cloud services Yugabyte provides in YugabyteDB Aeon. Configuration related to infrastructure managed and operated by the public cloud providers is generally not available for Yugabyte customers to audit or modify in YugabyteDB Aeon.

Yugabyte implements the technical and organizational security measures as described in the [YugabyteDB Aeon Data Processing Addendum (DPA)](https://www.yugabyte.com/yugabyte-cloud-data-processing-addendum/).
