docs/content/preview/yugabyte-voyager/reference/assess-migration.md, before:

---
title: Assess migration
headcontent: yb-voyager assess-migration
linkTitle: Assess migration
description: YugabyteDB Voyager assess migration reference
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-voyager:
    identifier: assess-migration-voyager
    parent: yb-voyager-cli
    weight: 1
badges: tp
type: docs
---

[Assess the migration](../../migrate/assess-migration) from source (PostgreSQL) database to YugabyteDB.

## Syntax

```text
Usage: yb-voyager assess-migration [ <arguments> ... ]
```

### Arguments

The valid *arguments* for assess migration are described in the following table:

| Argument | Description/valid options |
| :------- | :------------------------ |
| &#8209;&#8209;assessment&#8209;metadata&#8209;dir | Directory path where assessment metadata like source database metadata and statistics are stored. Optional flag, if not provided, it will be assumed to be present at default path inside the export directory. |
| -e, --export-dir | Path to the export directory. This directory is a workspace used to store exported schema DDL files, export data files, migration state, and a log file. |
| -h, --help | Command line help. |
| --iops-capture-interval | Interval (in seconds) at which Voyager will gather IOPS metadata from the source database for the given schema(s). <br> Default: 120 |
| --send-diagnostics  | Enable or disable sending [diagnostics](../../diagnostics-report/) information to Yugabyte. <br>Default: true<br> Accepted parameters: true, false, yes, no, 0, 1 |
| --source-db-host <hostname> | Domain name or IP address of the machine on which the source database server is running. <br>Default: localhost |
| --source-db-name | Source database name. |
| &#8209;&#8209;source&#8209;db&#8209;password | Password to connect to the source database. If you don't provide a password via the CLI during any migration phase, yb-voyager will prompt you at runtime for a password. Alternatively, you can also specify the password by setting the environment variable `SOURCE_DB_PASSWORD`. If the password contains special characters that are interpreted by the shell (for example, # and $), enclose it in single quotes. |
| --source-db-port | Source database server port number. <br>Default: PostgreSQL(5432) |
| --source-db-schema | Source schema name(s) to export. In case of multiple schemas, use a comma-separated list of schemas: `schema1,schema2,schema3`. |
| --source-db-type |  Source database type (postgresql). |
| --source-db-user |  Username of the source database. |
| [--source-ssl-cert](../yb-voyager-cli/#ssl-connectivity) | Path to a file containing the certificate which is part of the SSL `<cert,key>` pair. |
| [--source-ssl-crl](../yb-voyager-cli/#ssl-connectivity) | Path of the file containing source SSL Root Certificate Revocation List (CRL). |
| [--source-ssl-key](../yb-voyager-cli/#ssl-connectivity) | Path to a file containing the key which is part of the SSL `<cert,key>` pair.|
| [--source-ssl-mode](../yb-voyager-cli/#ssl-connectivity) | One of `disable`, `allow`, `prefer`(default), `require`, `verify-ca`, or `verify-full`. |
| [--source-ssl-root-cert](../yb-voyager-cli/#ssl-connectivity) | Path of the file containing source SSL Root Certificate. |
| --start-clean | Cleans up the project directory for schema or data files depending on the export command. <br>Default: false <br> Accepted parameters: true, false, yes, no, 0, 1. |
| -y, --yes | Assume answer to all prompts during migration. <br>Default: false |

## Example

```sh
yb-voyager assess-migration --source-db-type postgresql \
        --source-db-host hostname --source-db-user username \
        --source-db-password password --source-db-name dbname \
        --source-db-schema schema1,schema2 --export-dir /path/to/export/dir
```

Commit message:

[BACKPORT pg15-cherrypicks] all: Bulk port from master - 48
Summary:
 65145f6bda [PLAT-14532] Import Local Release will now try to process all releases.
 c5c969e7e9 [PLAT-14153] Do not count already upgraded master nodes as "inactive masters" during a software upgrade
 b5a2e60118 [#23096] YSQL: Return empty response from pg_replication_slots instead of an error if yb_enable_replication_commands isn't true.
 2d5ca883d6 [PLAT-14157] Implement new per process metrics in node_health.py
 16072901ab [PLAT-14478] Allowing prometheus auth without enabling HTTPS
 57f4b33973 Handling markdown space in contributors.md
 9d54ca0507 [docs] voyager-1.7.2 changes (#23116)
 b81dbaaaed [#23094] YSQL: Fix flaky test TestPgRegressFeaturePartition
 8b202c13da [docs] Removed v2.16 (#23099)
 d040fd81ea [PLAT-11654] Adding client level retries to Azure ybops
 d0917bdaeb [PLAT-13865] Check for expiry of current in-use certs as well
 fbc51f6bc5 [#23128] CDCSDK: Fix TSAN failure in TestCDCSDKConsistentStreamWithManyTransactions
 44d899f962 [#21550] YSQL: testSetMemoryTracking UT fails with connection manager enabled
 650269f483 [#22848] YSQL: Stats are not updated correctly for sticky connections in ysql connection manager
 0fd57994d7 [PLAT-14527][PLAT-14538] : DB Audit log fixes and improvements
 4c35006f0f [PLAT-12685]: Add alerts for xCluster tales based on status

Test Plan: Jenkins: rebase: pg15-cherrypicks

Reviewers: jason, tfoucher

Subscribers: yql

Tags: #jenkins-ready

Differential Revision: https://phorge.dev.yugabyte.com/D36435

docs/content/preview/yugabyte-voyager/reference/assess-migration.md, after:

---
title: Assess migration
headcontent: yb-voyager assess-migration
linkTitle: Assess migration
description: YugabyteDB Voyager assess migration reference
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-voyager:
    identifier: assess-migration-voyager
    parent: yb-voyager-cli
    weight: 1
badges: tp
type: docs
---

[Assess the migration](../../migrate/assess-migration) from source (PostgreSQL, Oracle) database to YugabyteDB.

## Syntax

```text
Usage: yb-voyager assess-migration [ <arguments> ... ]
```

### Arguments

The valid *arguments* for assess migration are described in the following table:

| Argument | Description/valid options |
| :------- | :------------------------ |
| &#8209;&#8209;assessment&#8209;metadata&#8209;dir | Directory path where assessment metadata like source database metadata and statistics are stored. Optional flag, if not provided, it will be assumed to be present at default path inside the export directory. |
| -e, --export-dir | Path to the export directory. This directory is a workspace used to store exported schema DDL files, export data files, migration state, and a log file. |
| -h, --help | Command line help. |
| --iops-capture-interval | Interval (in seconds) at which Voyager will gather IOPS metadata from the source database for the given schema(s). <br> Default: 120 |
| --oracle-db-sid | Oracle System Identifier you can use while exporting data from Oracle instances. Oracle migrations only. |
| --oracle-home | Path to set `$ORACLE_HOME` environment variable. `tnsnames.ora` is found in `$ORACLE_HOME/network/admin`. Oracle migrations only. |
| [--oracle-tns-alias](../../yb-voyager-cli/#oracle-options) | TNS (Transparent Network Substrate) alias configured to establish a secure connection with the server. Oracle migrations only. |
| --send-diagnostics | Enable or disable sending [diagnostics](../../diagnostics-report/) information to Yugabyte. <br>Default: true<br> Accepted parameters: true, false, yes, no, 0, 1 |
| --source-db-host <hostname> | Domain name or IP address of the machine on which the source database server is running. <br>Default: localhost |
| --source-db-name | Source database name. |
| &#8209;&#8209;source&#8209;db&#8209;password | Password to connect to the source database. If you don't provide a password via the CLI during any migration phase, yb-voyager will prompt you at runtime for a password. Alternatively, you can also specify the password by setting the environment variable `SOURCE_DB_PASSWORD`. If the password contains special characters that are interpreted by the shell (for example, # and $), enclose it in single quotes. |
| --source-db-port | Source database server port number. <br>Default: PostgreSQL (5432), Oracle (1521) |
| --source-db-schema | Source schema name(s) to export. In case of PostgreSQL, it can be single or a comma-separated list of schemas: `schema1,schema2,schema3`. |
| --source-db-type |  Source database type (postgresql, oracle). |
| --source-db-user |  Username of the source database. |
| [--source-ssl-cert](../yb-voyager-cli/#ssl-connectivity) | Path to a file containing the certificate which is part of the SSL `<cert,key>` pair. |
| [--source-ssl-crl](../yb-voyager-cli/#ssl-connectivity) | Path of the file containing source SSL Root Certificate Revocation List (CRL). |
| [--source-ssl-key](../yb-voyager-cli/#ssl-connectivity) | Path to a file containing the key which is part of the SSL `<cert,key>` pair.|
| [--source-ssl-mode](../yb-voyager-cli/#ssl-connectivity) | One of `disable`, `allow`, `prefer`(default), `require`, `verify-ca`, or `verify-full`. |
| [--source-ssl-root-cert](../yb-voyager-cli/#ssl-connectivity) | Path of the file containing source SSL Root Certificate. |
| --start-clean | Cleans up the project directory for schema or data files depending on the export command. <br>Default: false <br> Accepted parameters: true, false, yes, no, 0, 1. |
| -y, --yes | Assume answer to all prompts during migration. <br>Default: false |

## Example

```sh
yb-voyager assess-migration --source-db-type postgresql \
        --source-db-host hostname --source-db-user username \
        --source-db-password password --source-db-name dbname \
        --source-db-schema schema1,schema2 --export-dir /path/to/export/dir
```
