---
title: Migrate using yb_migrate
headerTitle: Migrate using yb_migrate
linkTitle: Migrate using yb_migrate
description: Overview of the yb_migrate database engine for migrating data and applications from other databases to YugabyteDB.
beta: /preview/faq/general/#what-is-the-definition-of-the-beta-feature-tag
menu:
  preview:
    identifier: yb-migrate
    parent: db-migration-engine
    weight: 700
isTocNested: true
showAsideToc: true
---

[yb_migrate](https://github.com/yugabyte/yb-db-migration) is an open-source database migration engine provided by YugabyteDB. It is a command line executable program that supports migrating databases from PostgreSQL, Oracle, and MySQL to a YugabyteDB database. yb_migrate helps in both steps of a database migration including schema-migration and data-migration.

## Migration modes

### Offline migration

In the *offline migration* mode, the source database should not change during the migration. The offline migration is considered complete when all the requested schema objects and data are migrated to the target database.

### Online migration

In the *online migration* mode, the source database can continue to change. After the full initial migration, yb_migrate continues replicating source database changes to the target database. The process runs continuously till you decide to switch over to the YugabyteDB database.

{{< note title="Note" >}}
yb_migrate supports only `offline` migration mode. The `online` migration mode is currently under development.
{{< /note >}}

## Migration workflow

A typical migration workflow using yb_migrate consists of the following steps:

- [Install](#installation) yb_migrate on a *migrator machine*.
- Convert the source database schema to PostgreSQL format using the `yb_migrate export schema` command.
- Generate a *Schema Analysis Report* using the `yb_migrate analyze-schema` command. The report suggests changes to the PostgreSQL schema to make it appropriate for YugabyteDB.
- Manually change the exported schema as suggested in the Schema Analysis Report.
- Dump the source database in the local files on the migrator machine using the `yb_migrate export data` command.
- Import the schema in the target YugabyteDB database using the `yb_migrate import schema` command.
- Import the data in the target YugabyteDB database using the `yb_migrate import data` command.

<!-- [Diagram] needs to go here-->

## How does yb_migrate work?

yb_migrate is first [installed](#installation) on a _migrator machine_ using which you perform the migration.

### Migrator machine requirements

The machine where you'll run the yb_migrate command should:

- support CentOS or Ubuntu.
- connect to both the source and target database.
- have local storage at least 1.5 times the size of source DB.
- have sudo access.

yb_migrate keeps all of its migration state, including exported schema and data, in a local directory called *export directory*. Before starting migration, you should create the directory on a file system that has enough space to keep the entire data dump. Next, you should provide the path of the export directory as a mandatory argument (`--export-dir`) to each invocation of the yb_migrate command.

The export directory has the following sub-directories and files:

- `reports` directory contains the generated Migration Assessment Report.
- `schema` directory contains the source database schema translated to PostgreSQL. The schema is partitioned into smaller files by the schema object type such as tables, views, and so on.
- `data` directory contains TSV (Tab Separated Values) files that are passed to the COPY command on the target database.
- `metainfo` and `temp` directories are used by yb_migrate for internal bookkeeping.
- `yb_migrate.log` contains log messages.

### Migration phases

- In the *export phase*, yb_migrate uses `ora2pg` (for Oracle and MySQL) or `pg_dump` (for PostgreSQL) to dump schema and data in the PostgreSQL format. Given that YugabyteDB is a distributed database and uses storage format different from PostgreSQL, minor manual changes are required to the PostgreSQL schema dumped by yb_migrate. The report generated by the `yb_migrate analyze-schema` command, points to various schema files that you should manually change before trying to import the schema.

- In the *import schema phase*, yb_migrate applies the DDL SQL files located in the `$EXPORT_DIR/schema` directory to the target database.

- In the *import data phase*, yb_migrate splits the data dump files from the `$EXPORT_DIR/data` directory into smaller *batches* ,each of which contains at most `--batch-size` number of records. yb_migrate concurrently ingests the batches such that all nodes of the target YugabyteDB cluster are utilized. The import data phase is designed to be *restartable*; if yb_migrate terminates when the data import was in progress, upon restart the data import resumes from its state in the previous run.

## Unsupported features

Currently, yb_migrate doesn't support following features:

- BLOB and CLOB
- TABLESPACEs
- ALTER VIEW

## Installation

Set up a machine which satisfies the following [requirements](#migrator-machine-requirements) using the following steps:

- Clone the yb_migrate repository.

```sh
git clone https://github.com/yugabyte/yb-db-migration.git
```

- Change the directory to `yb-db-migration/installer_scripts`.

```sh
cd yb-db-migration/installer_scripts
```

- Depending on the Linux distribution (CentOS or Ubuntu) you're running, execute the appropriate installer script:

```sh
//CentOS
./yb_migrate_installer__centos.sh
```

```sh
//Ubuntu
./yb_migrate_installer__ubuntu.sh
```

It is safe to execute the script multiple times. On each run, the script regenerates the `yb_migrate` executable based on the latest commit in the git repository. If the script fails for some reason, check the `yb_migrate_installer.log` in the current working directory.

- The script generates a `.yb_migrate_installer_bashrc` file in the home directory. Source the file to ensure that the correct environment variables are set using the following command:

```sh
source ~/.yb_migrate_installer_bashrc
```

- Check that yb_migrate is installed using the following command:

```sh
yb_migrate --help
```

## Next step

[Migrate](../../database-migration-engine/db-migration-process) from other databases (PostgreSQL, MySQL or Oracle) to YugabyteDB using yb_migrate.